Name : Isuru Udana, Full Name : Isuru Udana Tillakaratna, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : February 17, 1988, Balangoda, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm medium fast, Teams : Sri Lanka,Basnahira Greens,Chilaw Marians Cricket Club,Colombo Kings,Combined Provinces,Dambulla,Duronto Rajshahi,Galle Guardians,Hambantota Troopers,Kandy,MAS Holdings-Active,Montreal Tigers,Nondescripts Cricket Club,Paarl Rocks,Punjab Riders,Puttalam District,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Ruhuna,Sindhis,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Board XI,Sri Lanka Cricket Academy,Sri Lanka Cricket Board President's XI,Sri Lanka Cricket Invitation XI,Sri Lanka Ports Authority Cricket Club,Sri Lanka Under-19s,Sri Lanka Under-20s School,Tamil Union Cricket and Athletic Club,Trinbago Knight Riders,Wayamba,Wayamba United,, Profile : Udana is a talented left-arm fast-bowling allrounder, whose variety and changes of pace have seen him appear sporadically for Sri Lanka's T20 side. Capable of moving the ball off the seam, Udana is possessed of a number of slower balls, including one out of the back of his hand that has brought him some success at the top level. He was fast-tracked into the Sri Lanka squad for the 2009 World T20 in England and played a role in Sri Lanka's progress to the final in that tournament. However, he did not play the 2010 World T20, and had largely been ignored by the national selectors until early 2017. While still a schoolboy, at DS Senanayake College, he joined Nondescripts CC, but even before he could represent them in a domestic match he was selected to play for Sri Lanka Under-20 Schools side in the ongoing U-23 Division I youth tournament. He was selected to tour South Africa with the Sri Lanka A team in August 2008 without having played a single first-class match, and was the leading wicket-taker in the Inter-Provincial T20 tournament in 2008-09, helping Wayamba to the title and a berth in the Champions Twenty20 League. 
 ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Dasun Shanaka, Full Name : Madagamagamage Dasun Shanaka, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : September 09, 1991, Negombo, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Comilla Warriors,Cumilla Warriors,Dambulla Viiking,Montreal Tigers,Sinhalese Sports Club,Sri Lanka Under-19s,, Profile : An explosive middle-order batsman, and steady right-arm seam bowler, Dasun Shanaka worked his way into Sri Lanka's T20 side through several seasons of good performances for Sinhalese Sports Club. Born and educated in Negombo, Shanaka made his T20 international debut against Pakistan in August 2015, but it wasn't until the following domestic season that he achieved wide acclaim. Batting at No. 4 in an AIA Premier T20 match against Saracens Sports Club, Shanaka struck a Sri Lankan record 16 sixes in an innings worth 123 from 46 balls. That wasn't even his biggest T20 score of the last week. He had hit 131 off 48 balls against Galle Cricket Club one week earlier.But it was with the ball that Shanaka first made his mark on the international stage. He took 3 for 16 on a Pune greentop, against India, having only taken two domestic T20 wickets before then. He played bright cameos in Sri Lanka's 2016 World T20 campaign, and in April he was picked in the Test squad - for Sri Lanka's tour of England -  for the first time, largely on his potential, rather than his first-class record.Andrew Fidel Fernando
Name : Lahiru Thirimanne, Full Name : Hettige Don Rumesh Lahiru Thirimanne, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : August 09, 1989, Moratuwa, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : Sri Lanka,Basnahira South,Kandurata Maroons,Prime Bank Cricket Club,Ragama Cricket Club,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Board President's XI,Sri Lanka Cricket Development XI,Sri Lanka Under-19s,, Profile : An unflappable young talent with a killer cover drive, Lahiru Thirimanne came to the international landscape highly regarded by Sri Lanka's cricket elite, with Aravinda de Silva most notably among his champions. An opener by reputation, Thirimanne made his debut in early 2010 and earnt sporadic places in the national side over the next two years, but it was not until he was moved to the middle order in 2012 that he unearthed the consistency that would make him a regular at the top level. A measured batsman, if at times a limited one, Thirimanne has been a contrasting ally for Sri Lanka's middle-order dashers in ODI cricket, striking particularly memorable partnerships with Angelo Mathews to lift Sri Lanka out of trouble.His forte has always been the longest form however, as evidenced by a first-class average of almost 60 in his first full season for Ragama CC. Thirimanne could not recreate that form in his first few Tests as an opener, but conjured his finest innings to date at no. 4, when he stepped off a plane 36 hours before the 2013 New Year Test to strike a sparkling 91 on the first day in Sydney. Ten days later he hit a maiden international hundred in an ODI to take Sri Lanka to victory in Adelaide.  Andrew Fernando
Name : Thisara Perera, Full Name : Narangoda Liyanaarachchilage Thisara Chirantha Perera, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : April 03, 1989, Colombo, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : Sri Lanka,Barbados Royals,Chennai Super Kings,Colts Cricket Club,Dhaka Platoon,Gloucestershire,Guyana Amazon Warriors,ICC World XI,Jaffna Stallions,Karachi Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Kochi Tuskers Kerala,Melbourne Renegades,Montreal Tigers,Multan Sultans,Mumbai Indians,Quetta Gladiators,Rising Pune Supergiants,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Under-19s,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,St Lucia Zouks,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Wayamba,, Profile : A bustling right-arm seamer and sporadically effective left-handed hitter, Thisara Perera has been been in Sri Lanka's short-format sides since 2010. Bowling is ostensibly Perera's major skill but, often deployed in the lower-middle order, he is also capable of delivering furious finishes to an innings. Perera is particularly severe on spin, which has led to his being used as a pinch-hitter through the middle overs, but he has at times also been weak to quality pace bowling. He is the kind of player for whom form in one discipline usually bleeds into the other. Dropped for the limited-overs series against South Africa in July 2014, but roared back in the following ODI series against Pakistan, getting his bowling and his hitting in order. He struck 78 runs at a rate of 169.56 and claimed a series-high nine wickets at an average of 10.66. Perera has also done well with bat and ball on previous tours to Australia, and has often been at his best against India, memorably slamming the straight six that completed Sri Lanka's World T20 triumph in 2014. His more recent years have been beset by inconsistency but Perera continues to command a place in the side. He has hat-tricks in both ODIs and T20s.Perera began his schooling at St Anthony's, Wattala, before accepting a scholarship to join St Joseph's College. It turned out to be a productive move as he teamed up with Angelo Mathews and produced many noteworthy performances in the thriving schools cricket scene. Perera played a key role in helping his school break the hoodoo in the Battle of the Saints (against St Peters College) that lasted more than 35 years. He received his maiden national call-up during Sri Lanka's tour of India in 2009 as an emergency replacement for Mathews. That quickly led to an IPL contract, as he was bought by Chennai Super Kings for $50,000, and he has been one of the few Sri Lanka players to consistently find employment in the competition.
Andrew Fidel Fernando
Name : Angelo Mathews, Full Name : Angelo Davis Mathews, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : June 02, 1987, Colombo, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Basnahira Greens,Basnahira North,Brothers Union,Colombo Kings,Colts Cricket Club,Combined Provinces,Delhi Daredevils,Kolkata Knight Riders,Pune Warriors,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Under-19s,, Profile : A robust batting technique, nagging consistency with the ball, and athleticism in the field, all set off by an imperturbable temperament, have made Angelo Mathews one of Sri Lanka's most prized assets and a figure on which the team hangs many hopes. He has risen quickly since earning wide acclaim with an acrobatic save in the 2009 World Twenty20, and in February 2013, became Sri Lanka's youngest ever Test captain at 25, after having been groomed for the post for two years. In limited overs cricket, Mathews' all-round skills are almost indispensable. When he pulled a quad in the World Cup semi-final in 2011, he forced three changes to the XI that played in the final, as the team strove for the balance he single-handedly delivers. He began his international career with ambitions of becoming a genuine allrounder, but has since given primacy to his batting, and effectively plays as a specialist batter in the Test side. Often coming to the crease at No. 6, Mathews provides solidity to the lower-middle order, which had been a weakness for Sri Lanka prior to his arrival. In ODIs he has provided two unforgettable finishes - against Australia in 2010, and Pakistan in 2012 - stealing victory with a sublime, sustained assaults, but his best work has come in the Test format. In an outstanding 2014, in which he scored 1160 runs at an average of 77.33, Mathews' finest moment was the rousing 160 at Headingley, which transformed that match and saw Sri Lanka win their first Test series in England (not including the one-off Test in 1998). Mathews' appointment to the captaincy has heralded a renewed focus on youth and development by the Sri Lanka selectors. Once a successful leader of the St. Joseph's College side and the Sri Lanka Under-19 team, Mathews has been charged with ushering in a new age of Sri Lankan cricket.Andrew Fidel Fernando
Name : Dhananjaya Lakshan, Full Name : Pothotuwa Arachchige Dhananjaya Lakshan, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : October 05, 1998, Galle, Playing Role : Batting allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : Sri Lanka,Galle Gladiators,, Profile : 
Name : Dimuth Karunaratne, Full Name : Frank Dimuth Madushanka Karunaratne, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : April 21, 1988, Colombo, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Basnahira Cricket Dundee,Dambulla,Sinhalese Sports Club,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Board XI,Sri Lanka Under-19s,Sri Lanka Under-20s School,, Profile : Dimuth Karunaratne is a solid left-hand opening batsman, and another alumnus of the St Joseph's College side that produced Angelo Mathews and Thisara Perera, whom he also played with in the Sri Lanka Under-19 side. Karunaratne made his first class debut for Sinhalese Sports Club (SSC) in 2008, but had a quiet first season, batting largely in the middle order. He secured a place in the top order in 2009, and began to score more consistently thereafter. His maiden first-class century, against Colts Cricket Club, heralded a deluge of 1186 runs in the season, at an average of 56.54. His prolific form earnt him a call-up for the Sri Lanka A team against visiting South Africa A, where he again impressed, making 184 against an attack that included Vernon Philander. Karunaratne has not reproduced the same volume of runs since his second season, but has developed a reputation for making big centuries against good attacks. He played two ODIs for Sri Lanka in 2011, making 4 and 60, and was also included in the Test tour to South Africa later in the year, though he did not get a game. He toured South Africa again in July 2012 though, with the A team, and impressed with scores of 83 and 150 not out on that tour. Soon after that, he found himself on the verge of a Test debut when he was chosen to open alongside SSC partner Tharanga Paranavitana, replacing the injured Tillakaratne Dilshan for the Test against New Zealand in Galle.Andrew Fernando
Name : Lasith Embuldeniya, Full Name : Lasith Embuldeniya, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : October 26, 1996, Colombo, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Sri Lanka,Kandy Tuskers,Nondescripts Cricket Club,Royal College,, Profile : 
Name : Wanindu Hasaranga de Silva, Full Name : Pinnaduwage Wanindu Hasaranga de Silva, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : July 29, 1997, Galle, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Colombo Cricket Club,Jaffna Stallions,Richmond College,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sri Lanka Under-19s,Sri Lanka Under-23s,, Profile : A bruising lower-middle order batsman, and an aggressive legbreak bowler, Wanidu Hasaranga graduated from a strong Richmond College outfit, had a fine run in Sri Lanka's 2015 and 2016 Under-19 teams, and has made a promising start to his domestic cricket career.Though it was his bowling that largely impressed at the Under-19 level - he claimed a particularly impactful 3 for 34 in the 2016 Youth World Cup quarter-final against England - batting was Hasaranga's stronger suit in his first two seasons of senior cricket. Hasaranga made a rapid 87 on first-class debut with Ports Authority Cricket Club, and, having switched to Colombo Cricket Club, hit 586 runs at an average of 39.06 and a strike rate of 93 in the 2017 Premier League Tournament. When this first-class runs tally was followed by a stretch of good bowling form in List A domestic tournaments, Hasaranga piqued the national selectors' interest. He was chosen in Sri Lanka's squad for the first two one-dayers against Zimbabwe in June 2017, with his fielding also cited as a reason for his selection. And what a debut it subsequently was; he became the third debutant in ODI history to claim a hat-trick when he wiped out Zimbabwe's tail with the 14th, 15th and 16th deliveries of his international career.Andrew Fidel Fernando
Name : Dhananjaya de Silva, Full Name : Dhananjaya Maduranga de Silva, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : September 06, 1991, Colombo, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Badureliya Sports Club,Jaffna Stallions,Kandurata Maroons,Ragama Cricket Club,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Board President's XI,Sri Lanka Under-19s,, Profile : A technically correct top-order batsman from the southern reaches of the island, Dhananjaya de Silva briefly caught the national selectors' eye in 2015, then went on to have a bumper domestic season that marked him out for more intensive national duty. De Silva had been picked on potential in Sri Lanka's mid-year T20s against Pakistan, in 2015, but didn't quite convince he was a T20 batsman, hitting 45 off 47 balls across two innings. What followed, though, was an emphatic blooming.De Silva first topped the batting charts in the Super T20 Provincial Tournament in early 2016, hitting 234 runs at a strike rate of 133, in six innings. Months later, he was the star of Tamil Union's first victorious first-class campaign in 55 years, hitting 868 runs at 54.20, which featured a crucial fourth-innings 121 in the match that clinched his team the title. Incredibly, though usually employed as a part-time offspinner, de Silva was also his club's most successful bowler that season, claiming 32 wickets at 14.23. Those numbers helped earn him his first call-up to Sri Lanka's Test squad - for the England tour in May and June 2016.  Andrew Fernando, May 2016
Name : Akila Dananjaya, Full Name : Mahamarakkala Kurukulasooriya Patabendige Akila Dananjaya Perera, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : October 04, 1993, Panadura, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Legbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Chennai Super Kings,Galle Gladiators,Mumbai Indians,Sri Lanka Under-23s,Wayamba United,, Profile : Another installment from Sri Lanka's production line of unorthodox spinners, Akila Dananjaya sparked controversy when he was picked in the preliminary squad for the 2012 World Twenty20, despite never having played a professional match in his life. Able to deliver a legbreak, googly, carrom ball, doosra and a stock offspinner with astounding control, he had impressed Mahela Jayawardene so much as a net bowler at a Sri Lanka practice session, that Jayawardene requested he be fast-tracked to the national squad.Dananjaya plays for Jayawardene's Wayamba United franchise in the Sri Lanka Premier League, and earned a call-up to the final 15 for the World Twenty20 after four fine performances in the tournament. He made significant contributions to that World T20 campaign, even playing in the final, but went out of favour with the selectors once Jayawardene stepped down from the captaincy. In the years since, Dananjaya has been sporadically picked in the Sri Lanka A team, but has not quite lived up to the promise of his early months in the spotlight. He was picked again in a Sri Lanka squad for ODIs against Zimbabwe, in June 2017. Andrew Fidel Fernando, June 2017
Name : Sanath Jayasuriya, Full Name : Sanath Teran Jayasuriya, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : June 30, 1969, Matara, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Sri Lanka,Asia XI,Bloomfield Cricket and Athletic Club,Colombo Cricket Club,Dolphins,Khulna Royal Bengals,Marylebone Cricket Club,Mumbai Indians,Ruhuna,Somerset,, Profile : It's hard to imagine that for the first half-decade of his career, Sanath Jayasuriya was considered a bowler who could bat a bit. Think of him now and you think of forearms straight out of a smithy, shots hammered through point and cover and scythes over the leg side. You recall a man who could score equally briskly in every form of the game, who slashed and burned his way through bowling attacks. As with anyone who relied so much on extraordinary hand-eye coordination, there were troughs and lean times, but just as the obit writers got busy, he would produce another innings of supreme power. The bowling, always canny and relying more on variations in pace than sharp turn, became the supporting act, though 440 international wickets should tell you that he was pretty adept at what he did.Following Mark Greatbatch's success at the 1992 World Cup, most teams were rethinking the way they approached the one-day game and Jayasuriya, who had trawled the lower reaches of the middle order till then, had his first stint as opener during the Hero Cup in India in 1993. It was only during a home series against Pakistan the following year that he established himself in the role and by the time the World Cup rolled around 18 months later, he had already chalked up his first century in whites, a frenetic stroke-filled effort in Adelaide. The years that followed were both prolific and successful. People remember Aravinda de Silva's magical innings from the semi-final and final of  the 1996 World Cup but it was Jayasuriya's withering assaults that deflated India in Delhi and England in the last eight. Soon after, he began to exact as heavy a toll on Test attacks, scoring at such a pace that Muttiah Muralitharan and friends had ample time to work their way through opposition batsmen.After Arjuna Ranatunga's ouster, there was a four-year stint as captain that ended with a semi-final appearance at the 2003 World Cup, and just as the whispers grew about diminishing returns with the bat, he had one of his most successful years in 2004. There was a retirement announcement  in 2006, but he was back within weeks, and the walk off the Test stage came only 18 months later, after a typically cavalier innings in Kandy.The one-day flame continued to burn bright, and took Sri Lanka to another World Cup final in 2007, and he was instrumental in the Asia Cup win of 2008, a couple of months after it had seemed that the selectors' axe had fallen for the final time. The Indian Premier League gave him a new platform to showcase his big-hitting talent, but failure to replicate the success of the first season in subsequent campaigns was the surest sign that time had finally caught up with a man who was still pounding out one-day hundreds at the age of 39. His election as a Member of Parliament in April 2010 and his subsequent failure at the World Twenty20 suggested that his international career may be at an end, but he made the longlist for the 30-man squad for the 2011 World Cup, before being recalled to the one-day side for the series in England two weeks shy of his 42nd birthday.Dileep Premachandran
Name : Mahela Jayawardene, Full Name : Denagamage Proboth Mahela de Silva Jayawardene, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : May 27, 1977, Colombo, Playing Role : Batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Adelaide Strikers,Asia XI,Central Districts,Delhi Daredevils,Jamaica Tallawahs,Karachi Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Kochi Tuskers Kerala,Marylebone Cricket Club,Sinhalese Sports Club,Somerset,Sussex,Trinidad & Tobago Red Steel,Wayamba,, Profile : A prolific, elegant and utterly classy batsman with a huge appetite for runs, and a calm yet authoritative captain - those are the qualities that best describe Mahela Jayawardene. His sheer quality as a batsman was never in doubt even when he just entered the international scene, but for Jayawardene the biggest challenge has been to justify all the early hype. With over 10,000 runs in both Tests and ODIs - and a captaincy stint that included a World Cup final appearance - it can safely be said that he has met that challenge more than adequately.Blessed with excellent hand-eye coordination and a fine technique, Jayawardene scores his runs all around the wicket. Among his favourite strokes are the languid cover-drive - often with minimal footwork but precise placement and timing - and the wristy flick off his legs, but there are several others he plays with equal felicity. The most memorable are the cuts and dabs he plays behind the stumps, mostly off spinners, but also against quick bowling, when bat makes contact with ball delightfully late. Apart from his artistry, what stands out about his batting is his hunger for big scores, most apparent in his record 624-run partnership with Kumar Sangakkara, but also in the regularity with which he notches up Test double-hundreds. And his century against Zimbabwe in the World Twenty20 in 2010 was a shining example of traditional methods succeeding in a new format.Jayawardene is easily one of the most elegant batsmen of his generation, but the major drawback in his career is his relative lack of success in overseas conditions. His averages in Australia, England, South Africa and New Zealand are all less than 35, but at home he averages more than 60.In the second half of his career, Jayawardene grew into an astute captain who read the game well and wasn't afraid to take risks. Under him, Sri Lanka shed their diffident approach, winning Tests in England and New Zealand, and - in what was Jayawardene's greatest achievement as captain - reached the final of the 2007 World Cup. He quit captaincy in February 2009, but agreed to a second stint, taking over from Tillakaratne Dilshan after the tour to South Africa in 2011-12, but resigned again after a year, handing the reins to Angelo Mathews. His limited overs batting has improved with age, and an increasing stroke repertoire has seen Jayawardene become almost as impressive an innovator at the crease, as he is a technician. An unbeaten 103 from 88 balls in the 2011 World Cup final made plain his limited  overs prowess, and marked him out as a big-match player, having already made a century in the semi-final of the same tournament four years ago. 
S Rajesh and ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Lasith Malinga, Full Name : Separamadu Lasith Malinga, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : August 28, 1983, Galle, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : Sri Lanka,Basnahira,BCCSL Academy XI,Galle Cricket Club,Galle Gladiators,Guyana Amazon Warriors,Jamaica Tallawahs,Kandy,Kent,Khulna Titans,Maratha Arabians,Melbourne Stars,Montreal Tigers,Mumbai Indians,Nondescripts Cricket Club,Palace Diamonds,Rangpur Riders,Ruhuna,Ruhuna Reds,Ruhuna Royals,Southern Express,Southern Province,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Board XI,Sri Lanka Cricket XI,Sri Lanka Emerging Team,Sri Lanka Masters,Sri Lanka Schools XI,St Lucia Zouks,, Profile : One of the great limited-overs bowlers in his pomp, Lasith Malinga gained a reputation for delivering searing inswinging yorkers from a round-arm action as destructive as it was distinctive. That yorker, a deceptive slower ball, and an excellent bouncer formed the body of Malinga's menace, while the action made his deliveries hard to pick up. All that ability was also set off by street smarts; Malinga was rarely shy to switch up plans, and reshuffle fields. Even when batsmen thought they knew what was about to come, Malinga retained the capacity to surprise.Found in his teens playing soft-ball cricket on the beaches of Rathgama, just north of Galle, Malinga became one of the poster boys for the informal Sri Lankan coaching system and its philosophy of equipping unconventional bowlers, rather than remaking them. Malinga has repeatedly credited Champaka Ramanayake for his success. It was Ramanayake who initially took interest in him, and with whom he developed the yorker that became the foundation of his career. The coach would glue a pair of shoes near the popping crease. Malinga would spend hours bowling at them. Initially picked for his pace, Malinga toured Australia with the Sri Lanka team in 2004, where he claimed 6 for 90 in a tour match and went on to make his Test debut - he dismissed Darren Lehmann and Adam Gilchrist in the same over, in Darwin. During an impressive tour of New Zealand the following year, his low-slung action resulted in the New Zealand batsmen asking the umpire to change the colour of their trousers as the ball was getting lost.But it was in the shorter formats that destiny beckoned Malinga. He became the first - and, so far, only - bowler to claim four wickets in four balls, when he took Sri Lanka to the brink of victory against South Africa, in the 2007 World Cup. He has two more ODI hat-tricks - against Australia and Kenya - and he quickly established himself as Sri Lanka's limited-overs spearhead. Though Mahela Jayawardene, Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan also played important roles, Malinga was arguably the single-most important player in Sri Lanka's excellent run in global tournaments from 2007-2014.It is felt Malinga never realised his full potential in Tests, though perhaps through no fault of his own. He was only the third player to reach 100 Test wickets for Sri Lanka but a knee injury in 2008 laid him low for two years. He was picked again for Muttiah Muralitharan's farewell series, but again found himself injured for a period of some months. In April 2011, at the age of 27, Malinga announced his Test retirement, citing the desire to manage his "chronic knee injury" and extend his limited-overs career. It is thought his unique bowling action places a substantial load on the joints in his hips and legs. However, the fact that he announced his retirement while playing for Mumbai Indians in the IPL rankled at home. Through the forthcoming years, Malinga would go on to have a complicated relationship with Sri Lankan fans and media. In that time, he also became one of the IPL's iconic figures, representing Mumbai throughout.Malinga's finest moment came during the 2014 World T20, in which he nominally captained the side through the knockouts but, more importantly, delivered a clinical final spell to muzzle the India middle order. Sri Lanka would go on to win that title but, before long, Malinga's career became threatened by fitness issues - both involuntary and self-inflicted. In late 2014, a long-standing ankle complaint deteriorated to the extent that it required surgery. Malinga was a diminished force through the 2015 World Cup and became significantly slower in his later years, in which he also put on weight. He stepped down as T20 captain ahead of Sri Lanka's 2016 World T20 campaign, again owing to a chronic knee injury, this time in his left leg. He has at times suggested that his career hangs in the balance as a result of these injuries. At others he has said he wishes to play on for another few years. Andrew Fidel Fernando
Name : Jeevan Mendis, Full Name : Balapuwaduge Manukulasuriya Amith Jeevan Mendis, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : January 15, 1983, Colombo, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Barbados Tridents,Bloomfield Cricket and Athletic Club,Combined Provinces,Delhi Daredevils,Derbyshire,Dhaka Division,Kandurata,Prime Bank Cricket Club,Sinhalese Sports Club,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Board XI,Sri Lanka Under-19s,Sydney Sixers,Sylhet Thunder,Tamil Union Cricket and Athletic Club,Tshwane Spartans,, Profile : Jeewan Mendis comes from a cricketing family, with his father Jagath and brother Tharindu also playing for his school, St Thomas' College. As a youth cricketer, Jeewan won several prestigious awards, including the Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year in 2001, the Man-of-the-Tournament awards in the Under-17 Asia Cup in Pakistan and the 2001 U-19 World Cup in New Zealand, where he bowled a record-breaking spell of 7 for 19 against Zimbabwe. However, during his six years for SSC, he hardly got an
opportunity to bowl his legspinners, but his move to Tamil Union in 2008-09 opened the doors for him to display his all-round talent. In the recently concluded domestic season, Mendis won the Man-of-the-Tournament and Man-of-the-Final awards, scoring 450 runs and taking 26 wickets to help Tamil
Union emerge the Premier limited-overs champions. In the Premier League, he
accumulated 600 runs and captured 36 wickets to win the Player-of-the-Tournament prize once again - a unique double underlying the fact that he is a cricketer suitable for all versions of the game. Mainly a top-order batsman at No. 3 or 4 from his school days, Mendis honed his spin-bowling skills under the national spin bowling coach, Piyal Wijetunge. Mendis says batsmen find it difficult to read his leg spin or googly because of the way he grips the ball. An outstanding fielder, Mendis believes he is at his peak and selection to the Sri Lanka A team for the upcoming tri-nation series against Canada and Holland is one step towards achieving his life-long ambition of representing his country. Sa'adi Thawfeeq January 2010
Name : Milinda Siriwardana, Full Name : Tisse Appuhamilage Milinda Siriwardana, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : December 04, 1985, Nagoda, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Sri Lanka,Badureliya Sports Club,Basnahira South,Chilaw Marians Cricket Club,Chittagong Division,Colts Cricket Club,Dhaka Division,Galle Gladiators,Kalutara Vidyalaya,Kandurata Maroons,Ragama Cricket Club,Rajshahi Division,Ruhuna,Saracens,Sebastianites Cricket and Athletic Club,Sri Lanka A,Victoria Sporting Club,, Profile : A busy middle-order batsman and a capable left-arm spinner, Milinda Siriwardana broke through to the national side in 2015 after several years of encouraging domestic returns. Outstanding form in the 2015 Premier League Tournament prompted his elevation. He was the first-class season's top scorer with 1144 runs at an average of 67.29, and had also claimed 20 wickets for Badureliya Cricket Club. Siriwardana showcased his attacking flair when he made his ODI and T20 debuts during Pakistan's mid-year tour of Sri Lanka, and memorably struck his first international fifty in 25 deliveries during a breakneck 114-run ODI stand with Angelo Mathews. A successful initiation in those formats paved the route to his Test debut against West Indies later the same year. He had made his first-class debut for Sebastianites Cricket and Athletic Club in 2005, and had played for Sri Lanka A for several years before getting his international break. Siriwardana came close to national recognition was when he was included in the 30-member provisional squad for the 2009 World T20, but he was left out of the final team. That call-up came close on the heels of his maiden first-class ton, 135 for Basnahira South against Ruhuna in the SLC Inter-Provincial Tournament, a match in which he also claimed five wickets.Andrew Fidel Fernando
Name : Kumar Sangakkara, Full Name : Kumar Chokshanada Sangakkara, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : October 27, 1977, Matale, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Asia XI,Central Province,Colombo District Cricket Association,Deccan Chargers,Durham,Hobart Hurricanes,ICC World XI,Jamaica Tallawahs,Kandurata,Kandurata Maroons,Karachi Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Marylebone Cricket Club,Multan Sultans,Nondescripts Cricket Club,Quetta Gladiators,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Surrey,Warwickshire,, Profile : As soon as he broke into the side at the age of 22, while a law student, it was apparent that Kumar Sangakkara was destined for more than just batting stardom. The left-handers that had preceded him, like Arjuna Ranatunga and Asanka Gurusinha, had been pugnacious battlers but Sangakkara was cut from more graceful cloth, easing into strokes with the elegance often associated withthose that play with the 'other' hand. The cut and the pull came naturally to him and with growing confidence, he became a more assured front-foot player as well.Ranatunga had already exploded the myth of the Sri Lankans being meek men who could be bullied, but Sangakkara has refined the belligerence, combining a suave exterior with cutting asides and sharp sledges from behind the stumps. Initially, his glovework wasn't for the purists, but such was his batting ability that there was no question of displacing him from the XI.As a batsman, he has matured steadily, and the appetite for runs was best illustrated at the Sinhalese Sports Club Ground in Colombo in 2006, when he and Mahela Jayawardene, captain and close friend, added 624 against a South African attack boasting Dale Steyn and Makhaya Ntini. Sangakkara contributed 287 and did his burgeoning reputation no harm a year later when he went to Hobart and scored a dazzling 192 in a close defeat. By then, he already had a half-century in a World Cup final to his name, and long before Jayawardene relinquished the captaincy, it was understood that Sangakkara would be the anointed one.He has been far less relentless in the one-day arena, often throwing his wicket away when well set, but his leadership qualities have made him a sought-after signing in the Indian Premier League. With the captain's burden on his shoulders, he no longer keeps in Test matches, but the smart-alec remarks from behind the stumps are a common feature of every game that Sri Lanka plays in coloured clothes.Although leadership drew the best from him as a batsman, he remains a voracious no. 3 in all forms despite having relinquished the reins in 2011. Sangakkara won the top prize at 2012's ICC awards, in addition to the award for Test Cricketer of the Year and the People's Choice award for the second year running. Later that year he confirmed himself among batting's modern greats, by becoming the equal fastest man to 10,000 Test runs alongside Sachin Tendulkar and Brian Lara, with the biggest Test crowd Sri Lanka had ever played for in audience, at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. .Dileep Premachandran and ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Duleep Mendis, Full Name : Louis Rohan Duleep Mendis, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : August 25, 1952, Moratuwa, Playing Role :  , Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Sinhalese Sports Club,, Profile : Wisden OverviewA strong, burly, wristy batsman capable of destroying attacks at any level when the mood took him, Mendis played in key part in Sri Lanka's early days as a Test-playing country.   Mendis, who had first played for Sri Lanka in 1972 while at school but was almost 30 when they played their first Test, made a shaky start, but quickly found his feet, despite having the additional burden of captaining the side from their third Test.  He hit 105 in both innings against India at Madras 1982-83, and nearly repeated the feat two years later against England at Lord's, with 111 and 94. Considering the circumstances, he performed admirably leading Sri Lanka to its inaugural Test and series victory against India in 1985-86, scoring 310 runs at 62.00.  Following his hundred against Pakistan the following winter he went into a steady decline, scoring only two fifties in his last 10 Tests.  He was replaced as captain by  Ranjan Madugalle for the tour to England in 1988, where he signed off with 56 in his final Test at Lord's.  He remained in the public eye, with Sri Lanka's World Cup success coming while he was managing the side.
Name : Aravinda de Silva, Full Name : Pinnaduwage Aravinda de Silva, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : October 17, 1965, Colombo, Playing Role :  , Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Auckland,Kent,Nondescripts Cricket Club,, Profile : One of the game's best entertainers, de Silva possessed the strengths of many of the tallest short run-scorers: unruffable technique, strong at cutting and hooking, an unrepentant attacker. His record is unrivalled among countrymen, his place in history secure after a match-winning century in a World Cup final. He stands 5ft 3 1/2in and arguably there has not been a better smaller player. His enthusiasm was amazing: he was a virtual ever-present in the Sri Lanka side and also played first-class and club cricket in England, South Africa and Australia. His international career ended with the 2003 World Cup, where he batted with all the verve and panache of old, and bowled his offspinners cannily. Sri Lanka's cricket authorities ensured that his wealth of cricketing experience would not go waste, appointing him a national selector. His other main interests are cakes and cars (usually fast ones).  Simon Wilde
Name : Romesh Kaluwitharana, Full Name : Romesh Shantha Kaluwitharana, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : November 24, 1969, Colombo, Playing Role :  , Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : Sri Lanka,Colts Cricket Club,Galle Cricket Club,Sebastianites Cricket and Athletic Club,, Profile : The diminutive "Kalu" burst onto the international scene with an unbeaten
132 on debut against Australia in 1992-93. However, after such a wonderful
start, he failed to secure his place in the senior side because of occasional
lapses behind the stumps. He was recalled for the crucial 1995-96 tour of
Australia, the turning point of his career as he combined with Sanath
Jayasuriya to form a devastating pinch-hitting opening partnership. The
pair's scoring rate revolutionalised one-day batting, and he was an integral figure in Sri Lanka's astonishing World Cup victory that winter. From then on, his batting style tempered somewhat and he set himself to play longer innings.
The emergence of Kumar Sangakkara led to his marginalisation after 2000,
although he made sporadic returns for both the one-day and Test team. The
selectors' decision to ask Sangakkara to concentrate on his batting in Tests
paved the way for a Test return in 2004 but his performances with the bat
were patchy and, despite scoring 54 in his last Test innings, the selectors
indicated a desire to look to the future when he was omitted for a 20-man training pool for New Zealand later in the year. He announced his retirement the day after, insisting that the time had come to focus on life after cricket.  He coached Colts CC while conducting a career as an insurance executive. He was appointed by Sri Lanka Cricket to be a member of the 2006 ACC Committee to Evaluate China, and in 2008 took temporary charge of Malaysia.
Charlie Austin
Name : Dinesh Chandimal, Full Name : Lokuge Dinesh Chandimal, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : November 18, 1989, Balapitiya, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Colombo Kings,Nondescripts Cricket Club,Rajasthan Royals,Ruhuna,Schools Invitation XI,Sri Lanka A,Sri Lanka Academy XI,Sri Lanka Army Sports Club,Sri Lanka Board President's XI,Sri Lanka Cricket Development XI,Sri Lanka Under-17s,Sri Lanka Under-19s,, Profile : Dinesh Chandimal is among the most promising young batsman going around in Sri Lankan cricket. A technically sound batsman with strokes all around the wicket, Chandimal also stands out because of the maturity he shows at the crease and his temperament to build and pace an innings.He made his international debut when only 21, and impressed almost immediately, scoring 111 in his second ODI, against India in the 2010 triangular series in Zimbabwe. Four innings later, he made another century, this time against England at Lord's, but his stocks rose significantly in 2012, when he performed superbly in ODIs on successive tours to South Africa and Australia. In conditions he wouldn't have been used to, Chandimal occupied the crucial No.4 slot and revelled in the responsibility, scoring consistently. In 16 ODI innings in those two series, he aggregated 630 runs, including six fifties. He was equally impressive on his Test debut too, scoring fifties in each innings in Durban as Sri Lanka won their first Test in South Africa. A dip in his limited overs form, especially at home, saw Chandimal dropped from the side during the latter half of 2012, though he remained in the Sri Lanka squad for all three formats. He returned to the Test side at the SCG for the New Year Test, and hit an unbeaten 67, batting alongside the tail. Six weeks later he became Sri Lanka's youngest ever captain, at 23, when he was handed the reins of Sri Lanka's top-ranked Twenty20, and was also named Angelo Mathews' deputy in Tests and ODIs. He celebrated his elevation with back-to-back Test hundreds against Bangladesh at home. Chandimal's rise to the national team came after consistent performances with bat and gloves at age-level cricket. That included an attacking century against India Under-19s in August 2007 and an unbeaten 112 in the tri-nation series against England U-19s the following year earned him a call-up to the squad for the U-19 World Cup in Malaysia in 2008.Shortly after completing a prolific season for Colombo's Ananda College, Chandimal was invited to join Nondescripts Cricket Club by Kumar Sangakkara. Chandimal was only 19 when scored his maiden first-class century against New Zealand in 2009, representing a Sri Lanka Cricket Development XI in two three-day practice matches against the likes of Chris Martin, Darryl Tuffey, Ian O'Brien, Jacob Oram and Daniel Vettori. He was among the leading run-getters in Sri Lanka's Interprovincial Twenty20 competition, and won a call-up to the national side for the ICC World Twenty20 in 2010. Soon after, the international opportunities followed, and Chandimal has made the most of them.
Sa'adi Thawfeeq and ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Tillakaratne Dilshan, Full Name : Tillakaratne Mudiyanselage Dilshan, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : October 14, 1976, Kalutara, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Asia XI,Basnahira South,Bloomfield Cricket and Athletic Club,Delhi Daredevils,Guyana Amazon Warriors,Kalutara Town Club,Karachi Kings,Northern Districts,Peshawar Zalmi,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sebastianites Cricket and Athletic Club,Singha Sports Club,Surrey,Tamil Union Cricket and Athletic Club,, Profile : With his relentless aggression, strong wrists and natural timing, Tillakaratne Dilshan is one of the most exciting batsmen in the game today. He is technically sound, but, much like Virender Sehwag, he uses the defensive option only as a last resort, after all the attacking alternatives have been explored. He loves to make room and thrash the ball through the off side, but the stroke that bears his signature more than any other is the one he developed for the 2009 ICC World Twenty20 - the eponymously named "Dilscoop" shot over his head, which confounded bowlers and experts alike.In fact, 2009 was a watershed year in his career, and a huge factor was his move up the batting order to open the innings in all three forms of the game. It was a move that proved his making, as he exploited attacking fields and amassed huge scores in all formats: he scored 11 international hundreds in the year, and won the World Twenty20 Player of the Series prize.Dilshan's abundant talent was never in doubt from the moment he made his debut, but he went through several early troughs, most notably when he was dropped from 2001 to 2003. Having burst onto the international scene with an unbeaten 163 against Zimbabwe in his first series in November 1999, Dilshan's career remained largely unfulfilled until he cemented his place as one of the most destructive openers in the modern era. Add his electric fielding, especially at backward point, and his underrated offspin, and Dilshan is a quality package. In 2011 he was named Sri Lanka's captain, after the resignation of Kumar Sangakkara, but his reign lasted less than a year, with Mahela Jayawardene replacing him after Sri Lanka's tour to South Africa in 2011-12. Like his team, Dilshan had had a poor run of form while he was captain, but his batting enjoyed a revival after being relieved of leadership, particularly in ODI cricket, where he was 2012's second-heaviest scorer, with 1119 runs. 
Jamie Alter
Name : Muthiah Muralidaran, Full Name : Muthiah Muralidaran, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : April 17, 1972, Kandy, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Asia XI,Chennai Super Kings,Gloucestershire,ICC World XI,Jamaica Tallawahs,Kandurata,Kent,Kochi Tuskers Kerala,Lancashire,Melbourne Renegades,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Tamil Union Cricket and Athletic Club,Wellington,, Profile : Perhaps no cricketer since Douglas Jardine has polarised opinion quite like Muthiah Muralidaran. For the believers, he's among the greatest to ever spin a ball. For the doubters, he's a charlatan undeserving of the game's greatest records, responsible for changes in the laws that they think have legitimised throwing. What was undeniable was his ability to turn the ball sharply on just about any surface, and bowl the sort of marathon spells that would have seen a lesser man retire after five seasons rather than 18. Whether Sri Lanka played at home, on pitches where he was often unplayable, or overseas, Murali was the go-to man for half a dozen captains. He seldom disappointed.Scion of a family with confectionery interests in Kandy, he first came to prominence during a tour game against Australia in 1992-93, when no less a batsman than Allan Border failed to pick him. From the outset, his action was an object of wonder or ridicule, depending on which side of the fence you stood. A deformed elbow was only part of the story. Murali had exceptionally supple wrists and a shoulder that rotated as rapidly as a fast bowler's at the time of delivery. A combination of all these factors combined to enable him to turn the ball far more than most orthodox finger-spinners, but it was only with his mastering the doosra, the one that went the other way or held its line, that he became Shane Warne's rival in the wicket-taking and greatness stakes. The controversies always kept him company, yet Murali seldom lost his wide-eyed smile, or the ability to run through batting sides. Darrell Hair called him for throwing on Boxing Day in 1995, and Ross Emerson followed suit three years later. In 2004, he was asked to refrain from bowling his doosra, after it was found to exceed the 15-degree tolerance limit that had been agreed on after extensive analysis of his and other actions. While the sceptics continued to denigrate his achievements, Murali even bowled on television in a special cast, going through his entire repertoire to try and convince the doubters.Part of the World Cup-winning side in 1996, he was instrumental in the run to the final 11 years later, and he played his part in some of the country's greatest sporting moments. It was his 16 wickets that helped rout England at The Oval in 1998, back in the days when Sri Lanka were deemed worthy of only one Test. He averaged less than 30 with the ball in every country except India and Australia, and he finished a remarkable Test career with more than 100 wickets against India, England and South Africa. Backed to the hilt by Arjuna Ranatunga, he blossomed in the late 1990s, and there was a period when the opposition routinely budgeted for 20 Murali wickets or more in a three-Test series. As the years passed, his shyness gave way to a quiet confidence and wry sense of humour, and he won admirers around the world for the energy, time and money that he invested in reconstruction after a tsunami had devastated the Sri Lankan coast in 2004. Often the only Tamil in the side in a time of ethnic conflict, he became as powerful a unifying force as any in the country. That he was such a hero with ball in hand was only part of the story.Dileep Premachandran
Name : Chaminda Vaas, Full Name : Warnakulasuriya Patabendige Ushantha Joseph Chaminda Vaas, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : January 27, 1974, Mattumagala, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Asia XI,Basnahira North,Colts Cricket Club,Deccan Chargers,Hampshire,Marylebone Cricket Club,Middlesex,Northamptonshire,Worcestershire,, Profile : Chaminda Vaas is easily the most penetrative and successful new-ball bowler Sri Lanka have had, and he has served his country well. He swings and seams the ball with skill, his trademark delivery being the late indipper. However, he also bowls a carefully disguised offcutter, and has recently added reverse-swing to his armoury, a skill that has made him a consistent wicket-taker even on bland subcontinental pitches. He outbowled New Zealand's seamers in green conditions at Napier to give Sri Lanka their first win in an overseas Test, in 1994-95. In 2001-02 he made a quantum leap, taking 26 wickets in the 3-0 rout of West Indies, becoming only the second fast bowler, after Imran Khan, to take 14 wickets in a match in the subcontinent. He then went on to take the first-ever ODI eight-for, against Zimbabwe, which included a hat-trick. He also claimed a hat-trick with the first three balls of the match against Bangladesh in the 2003 World Cup. Vaas reached the 300-wicket milestone in Tests against India in 2005-06, having passed the mark in ODIs on the tour to Zimbabwe. In 2004 he also gained overdue recognition for his talent when he was selected for the World XI at the inaugural ICC Awards. Vaas is easily Sri Lanka's second-most successful bowler - after Muttiah Muralitharan - in both forms of the game. His approach to his batting is equally sincere and in recent years he has gradually gained recognition as a useful allrounder. He waited 97 Tests for his maiden century, against Bangladesh, and soon after, became the third Sri Lankan to play 100 Tests or more.In August 2008, Vaas crossed yet another milestone when he had Yuvraj Singh caught for a duck in Colombo to get his 400th ODI wicket and become the fourth bowler to reach the landmark.  In July 2009, Vaas announced his retirement from Tests but said he will continue to play one-dayers and Twenty20s till the 2011 World Cup.
Name : Marvan Atapattu, Full Name : Marvan Samson Atapattu, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : November 22, 1970, Kalutara, Playing Role : Batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : Sri Lanka,Asia XI,Delhi Giants,ICL World XI,Sinhalese Sports Club,, Profile : A vulnerable starter, Atapattu showed immense strength of character once he got his eye in. On a lifeless pitch, he was a master of the percentage game, his caution a useful counterpoint to the risks taken by Sanath Jayasuriya, his opening partner almost throughout his Test career. All his big Test innings - he scored six double-hundreds in his career, a feat bettered only by Don Bradman (12), Wally Hammond and Brian Lara (seven each) - were been slow affairs but the most tortuous episode of his international career was its start: it took him nearly seven years to get established. However, since the 1990s his average climbed upwards. An elegant player to watch, Atapattu's signature shot was his high-elbow cover-drive.For three years he stood as Jayasuriya's understudy before being appointed to lead the one-day side in April 2003. He had been expected to take charge of the Test team as well, but the selection committee appointed Hashan Tillakaratne for that job. Atapattu's career took another bizarre twist later in the year when embroiled in the cash-in-the-bedroom affair in which a match-fixing investigation was initiated after a large sum of cash was discovered in the safe of the hotel room he had occupied during England's tour in 2003. The ICC later cleared Atapattu of any wrongdoing and the likeliest explanation for the mystery remains a crude attempt to blacken his reputation.But by early 2004 the team was drifting downwards under Tillakaratne and the selectors were finally compelled to appoint Atapattu as the Test captain. Within weeks he had halted the team's slide and established himself as a strong leader. On the surface a quiet and reserved character, his captaincy pedigree was not entirely obvious to the outsider, but within the dressing-room he was a straight-talking and positive captain, firm and fair in his dealings with the players and aggressive in his approach to the game. By mid-2004 the fortunes of the team had changed as Sri Lanka won the Asia Cup and whitewashed South Africa. The team fared poorly in the ICC Champions Trophy but perked up against Pakistan in October 2004.But Atapattu's capacity for attracting the unexpected continued when, out of the blue, Ashantha de Mel, the new government-appointed chairman of selectors, launched a scathing attack on the team management on the eve of the Paktel Cup in 2004-05, accusing them of blocking his attempts to blood new players. Atapattu wisely steered clear of a public confrontation, though his relationship with the selectors remained prickly. His career was put on hold by a back injury early in 2006 which led to Mahela Jayawardene taking on the captaincy. He was slowly reintroduced to the one-day side, but his tussles with the selectors continued. He was a late inclusion on the Australian tour following a ministerial intervention to bring him into the squad, but midway through the series he hit out at the selectors again, calling them "a set of muppets headed by a joker". He scored two half-centuries in the series, including 80 in the second innings in Hobart, but announced his retirement from international cricket on the last day of the Test.   Atapattu then joined the unofficial Indian Cricket League, playing for the Delhi Giants and ICL World XI. A ban on he and four other Sri Lankans was lifted in September 2008, meaning Atapattu was free to play domestic cricket back home.Since retirement from all cricket, Atapattu has forged a reputation as a technically adroit and hard-working batting coach, particularly for his work with the Sri Lanka team. He has been the national side's batting coach since 2011, and was promoted to the position of assistant coach in March 2013. In the wake of Paul Farbrace's sudden departure from the head coach position a year later, Atapattu was appointed the interim head coach for the away tour of England, and the home tour against South Africa, in July.
Cricinfo staff September 2008
Name : Arjuna Ranatunga, Full Name : Arjuna Ranatunga, Country : Sri Lanka, Date of Birth : December 01, 1963, Colombo, Playing Role : Batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Sri Lanka,Sinhalese Sports Club,, Profile : Arjuna Ranatunga is a stockily-built left-handed batsman who led Sri Lanka to their greatest cricketing triumph, the 1996 World Cup. His innovative captaincy took a Sri Lanka team given little chance prior to the competition for cricket's greatest prize. He made his debut in Sri Lanka's inaugural Test at the age of 18, and made his country's first Test half-century. A dominant figure on cricket fields all over the world for nearly 20 years, he never shied from confrontation, defending his players and rights to the hilt.Despite his relative inability to scamper the quick single which is considered essential in one-day cricket, Ranatunga had an uncanny ability to keep the scoreboard ticking over using deft placement on both sides of the wicket, combined with fluent driving through the offside in particular. He was a deceptive and useful medium-pace bowler, although his bowling was seen rarely in the later part of his career. He lost the captaincy following Sri Lanka's poor showing in the 1999 World Cup, and retired from international cricket a year later, but his contribution to Sri Lankan cricket is immense.  He moved into administration and was appointed chairman of the board in January 2008. He was sacked in December after a controversial tenure in which he took several decisions that went against the grain. 
Cricinfo staff
Name : Mitchell Marsh, Full Name : Mitchell Ross Marsh, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : October 20, 1991, Attadale, Perth, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : Australia,Aussie Fans XI,Australia A,Australia Under-19s,Australian Institute of Sport,Australian XI,Cricket Australia XI,Deccan Chargers,Fremantle,Graeme Hick XII,Nagenahira Nagas,Perth Scorchers,Prime Minister's XI,Pune Warriors,Rising Pune Supergiants,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Surrey,Western Australia,Western Australia Chairman's XI,Western Australia Second XI,Western Australia Under-17s,Western Australia Under-19s,Western Australia Under-23s,, Profile : Part of one of the most well-known family names in Australian cricket, Mitchell Marsh, an allrounder who can hit 140kph and hard-hitting middle-order batsman, has been an alluring prospect for Australia in all three formats but has struggled to cement his place at international level.In 2018 he ascended to the Australian Test vice-captaincy in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal, only to be dropped from all three formats and lose his Cricket Australia contract due to a string of failures at Test level in particular.Marsh squeezed Shane Watson out of the Test side during the 2015 Ashes tour and was given time to settle into the No.6 role, although his bowling was arguably the stronger feature of his game during 2015. That had not been the case in his debut Test series against Pakistan in the UAE in 2014, when he scored 87 and 47 in his second Test. He never quite settled until a century at the WACA in the third Test of the 2017-18 Ashes announced his arrival. He followed that with another in Sydney - brought up in emotional scenes with his brother, Shaun, at the crease - and then made a pivotal match-winning 96 in the first Test win in Durban before Australian cricket plunged into crisis.Justin Langer's appointment as coach combined with Marsh's popularity among team-mates saw him appointed as a joint Test vice-captain. However, he only played one Test during the 2018-19 home summer - failing twice with the bat against India at the MCG. He returned as part of the Ashes squad in 2019, recalled to the side at The Oval where he took his maiden five-wicket haul, but his following home summer was disrupted when he broke his hand thumping the dressing room wall at the WACA following a dismissal in the Sheffield Shield.Marsh had been earmarked for high honours ever since he captained the Australia Under-19s to victory in the 2010 World Cup in New Zealand. He made his T20I debut at 19, having enjoyed his first taste of state cricket at just 17. Marsh honed his skills in the Australian dressing room as a child, when his father Geoff was the national coach. He was also a promising junior Australian rules footballer and hails from a prolific sporting family; alongside the cricket lineage his sister Melissa was a basketballer for Perth Lynx in the WNBL.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Glenn Maxwell, Full Name : Glenn James Maxwell, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : October 14, 1988, Kew, Melbourne, Victoria, Playing Role : Batting allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Australia,Delhi Daredevils,Fitzroy-Doncaster,Hampshire,Hampshire 2nd XI,Kings XI Punjab,Lancashire,Melbourne Renegades,Melbourne Stars,Mumbai Indians,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Victoria,Victoria Second XI,Victoria Under-19s,Yorkshire,, Profile : One of the fastest scorers in world cricket, Glenn Maxwell has lit up the limited-overs formats and, at times, shown he can transfer that to the red ball. It is not just his power that worries opposing bowlers and captains. His ability to make unconventional shots appear routine - reverse sweeps and pulls, for example - makes it hard to set fields to cover all of his scoring areas. His audacity comes with risk, and he can exasperate as well as exhilarate, but at his best he can change a game in moments.In 2017-18 his career entered a confusing stage as he was dropped from the ODI side and then told by new Australia coach Justin Langer to "go and make hundreds" without seemingly being given the opportunities to do so. However, he re-established himself in ODI and T20I sides playing some stunning innings on the tours of India and the UAE. He scored his third T20I century in Bangalore to help Australia chase down 194. Also a handy offspinner and outstanding fieldsman, he offers an impressive package in one-day and T20 cricket when things click. He made his name for Victoria with a 19-ball half-century against Tasmania in 2010-11, the fastest fifty in Australia's one-day domestic history, and transferred that talent to the international stage. At the 2015 World Cup he blasted a 51-ball hundred against Sri Lanka at the SCG, the fastest for Australia in ODIs and the second-quickest in World Cup history. Australia have also used Maxwell in Tests but to less effect - patience at the crease has not generally been one of his strengths. However, in Delhi in 2013 he had the distinction of opening the batting and bowling in the same Test, as Australia searched in vain for something to turn their disastrous series around. He scored a maiden Test century against India in 2017 in Ranchi but was dropped following the 2017 tour of Bangladesh. He made a career-best 278 for Victoria against New South Wales in the Sheffield Shield in 2017-18 but could not find a spot in a revamped Australian Test side post the ball-tampering scandal. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Mitchell Starc, Full Name : Mitchell Aaron Starc, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : January 30, 1990, Baulkham Hills, Sydney, New South Wales, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast, Teams : Australia,Australia A,Australia Under-19s,New South Wales,New South Wales Second XI,New South Wales Under-17s,New South Wales Under-19s,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sydney Sixers,Western Suburbs,Yorkshire,, Profile : First there was Johnson, then there was Starc. A left-armer called Mitchell has been a staple of Australia's attack for more than a decade and seems set to remain so for the foreseeable future. While Johnson was more express, Starc is still quick enough to make life uncomfortable for opposition batsmen, especially with the bounce gained from his 1.96m height - and boasts greater control of swing than his older colleague. Never was that shown to greater effect than during the 2015 World Cup, when Starc was at times unplayable, his inswingers rattling stumps and trapping batsmen in front throughout the competition. Not surprisingly he was named Player of the Tournament for his 22 victims at 10.18, and his challenge was to take that white-ball form and perform just as consistently with the red ball. Starc struggled to gain the consistent backing of the selectors early in his Test career and was often in one Test and out the next, but in 2015 he finally enjoyed a solid run of Test cricket until an ankle injury stopped him during the home summer. His career-best match haul of 11 for 94 came in the notable surroundings of Galle - albeit in an Australia defeat - and he claimed 22 wickets in four Tests during the 2017-18 Ashes. He took his 200th Test wicket in his 50th Test in February of 2019 joining an elite group of Australian bowlers although play only one of the five Ashes Tests in the 2019 series. Also a powerful lower-order batsman, Starc fell one short of a Test century in Mohali in 2013. Starc is married to Australia women's wicketkeeper Alyssa Healy. ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Sean Abbott, Full Name : Sean Anthony Abbott, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : February 29, 1992, Windsor, New South Wales, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : Australia,Australia Under-19s,New South Wales,New South Wales Under-17s,New South Wales Under-19s,Parramatta,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sydney Sixers,Sydney Thunder,, Profile : Sean Abbott has developed into one of the most versatile bowling allrounders in Australian domestic cricket.A wicket-taking medium-fast bowler who also strikes the ball cleanly with the bat, he made his return to international cricket late in 2019 against Pakistan in T20 cricket after a five-year absence. It was a worthy reward for several outstanding seasons with the Sydney Sixers in the BBL where he was one of the most prolific wicket-takers in the competition and specialised in the death overs. He also became a key figure in New South Wales' Sheffield Shield side consistently taking wickets and providing lower-order runs, playing a crucial part in the Blues 2019-20 title. He was included in Australia's limited-overs tour to England in 2020 but didn't play. He returned to Australia and dominated the start of the Sheffield Shield season. He took 6 for 89 against WA and scored two half-centuries and his maiden first-class century against Tasmania to earn selection in Australia's limited-overs and Test squads for the 2020-21 home series against India. The allrounder debuted for New South Wales at the age of 18. He enjoyed his breakthrough season in 2013-14 when he topped the Ryobi Cup wicket tally with 16 wickets at 20.93. His strong all-round season also brought him 27 Sheffield Shield wickets and he won the Steve Waugh Medal as the best New South Wales player of the season. Abbott was rewarded with a call-up to Australia's one-day and Twenty20 squads to play Pakistan in the UAE in 2014. Less than two months after that, Abbott bowled the ball which fatally hit Phillip Hughes, but he came back from that tragedy remarkably well, taking 6 for 14 against Queensland on his return to first-class cricket, just 17 days later.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Wes Agar, Full Name : Wesley Austin Agar, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : February 05, 1997, Malvern, Victoria, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : Australia,Adelaide Strikers,Australia Under-19s,South Australia,Victoria Under-17s,, Profile : 
Name : Dan Christian, Full Name : Daniel Trevor Christian, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : May 04, 1983, Camperdown, Sydney, New South Wales, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : Australia,Barbados Tridents,Brisbane Heat,Deccan Chargers,Delhi Daredevils,Gloucestershire,Hampshire,Hobart Hurricanes,Karachi Kings,Melbourne Renegades,Middlesex,Middlesex 2nd XI,Multan Sultans,New South Wales,Rising Pune Supergiant,Royal Challengers Bangalore,South Australia,Sydney Sixers,Trinbago Knight Riders,Victoria,, Profile : Daniel Christian has become a global T20 gun-for-hire after spending most of his career in and around the Australia team without really earning a permanent place. An allrounder who can bat in the top six and provide a valuable extra seam option, Christian started at New South Wales, moved to South Australia and then shifted to Victoria ahead of the 2013-14 season. During that summer he was called into Australia's ODI and T20 sides and made the squad for the 2014 World T20 in Bangladesh. He had made his T20 international debut four years earlier and has since become a perennial winner at T20 tournaments. He has played for 16 different franchises in tournaments all over the world, making 11 finals and winning a staggering seven titles. He was Player of the Match in the 2018-19 BBL final for the Melbourne Renegades. At his best, Christian offers the complete package of clean-hitting with the bat, a wicket-taking knack with the ball and sharp work in the field. He was called into Australia's Test squad during the home series against India in 2011-12 but was not given a baggy green. The previous summer he had been South Australia's leading run scorer and second top wicket-taker in the Ryobi Cup, and he also filled in as the state's captain. His second move, to Victoria, came after a 2012-13 season in which he was suspended by South Australia after three outbursts in which he damaged change-rooms following his dismissals.Christian is also notable as one of the few players of Aboriginal heritage to reach the elite level. A graduate of Cricket Australia's indigenous cricket program and captain of the national indigenous development squad during a tour of England in 2009, Christian is from the Wiradjuri tribe in New South Wales. He also captained Australia's Aboriginal XI on the 2018 tour of England to commemorate 150 years since the first indigenous Australian team toured the UK. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : James Faulkner, Full Name : James Peter Faulkner, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : April 29, 1990, Launceston, Tasmania, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast medium, Teams : Australia,Australia A,Australia Under-19s,Gujarat Lions,Hobart Hurricanes,Kings XI Punjab,Lahore Qalandars,Lancashire,Launceston,Melbourne Stars,Pune Warriors,Rajasthan Royals,Tasmania,Tasmania Second XI,Tasmania Under-19s,, Profile : A bowling allrounder who will not back down from a contest, James Faulkner has also established a reputation as Australia's finisher with the bat in limited-overs chases. His cool head under pressure has won matches for Australia many times, and notably he was Man of the Match in the 2015 World Cup final triumph over New Zealand. On that occasion it was his bowling that earned him the honour, his 3 for 36 restricting New Zealand to a very gettable 183. His variations - slow balls and cutters especially - make him a dangerous bowler in the short forms and against Pakistan at the 2016 World T20 he became the first Australian to take a five-wicket haul in a T20 international. Faulkner made his Test debut in the dead rubber at The Oval on the 2013 Ashes tour and claimed six wickets, but has struggled to squeeze back into the side since then. Later that year he plundered his first ODI century - 116 off 73 balls - in a loss to India in Bangalore, in a game that will be more remembered for Rohit Sharma's 209. At domestic level, Faulkner was Tasmania's best player during a period of great success for the state. His breakout season in 2010-11 - he collected 36 Sheffield Shield wickets at 17.72 - coincided with the Tigers winning the Shield for the second time. The following two summers brought the consistent Faulkner wicket tallies of 36 and 39 and he helped the Tigers reach the Shield final in 2011-12 and win it in 2012-13 - he was Man of the Match in that final. His importance for Tasmania during those three seasons cannot be underestimated and in 2012-13 he won his third consecutive Ricky Ponting Medal as Tasmania's best player. Faulkner, whose father Peter also played for Tasmania, signed with his fourth IPL team - Gujarat Lions - for the 2016 season. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Nic Maddinson, Full Name : Nicolas James Maddinson, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : December 21, 1991, Nowra, New South Wales, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Australia,Australia A,Australia Under-19s,Guyana Amazon Warriors,Melbourne Stars,New South Wales,New South Wales Under-17s,New South Wales Under-19s,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Surrey,Sutherland,Sydney Sixers,Victoria,, Profile : An attacking batsman who is not afraid to go over the top, Nic Maddinson was a surprise inclusion in Australia's Test squad against South Africa in 2016-17. A highly rated player at junior levels, Maddinson emerged in 2010-11 when at 18 the became the youngest man to score a century on first-class debut for New South Wales - a record that was broken the next summer by Kurtis Patterson. Always a dangerous player in the shorter formats, he was called up for his T20 international debut against India in 2013, and scored 34 off 16 balls in his first game. Maddinson had a productive Australia A tour of the British Isles in 2013, blasting a first-class 181 against Gloucestershire. In 2015-16, he captained New South Wales in the Sheffield Shield for the first time, and remained a player of significant interest to the national selectors. Although Maddinson started out as an opener, he spent more time in the middle order as his career progressed.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : James Pattinson, Full Name : James Lee Pattinson, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : May 03, 1990, Melbourne, Victoria, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : Australia,Australia A,Australia Under-19s,Brisbane Heat,Dandenong,Kolkata Knight Riders,Melbourne Renegades,Mumbai Indians,Victoria,Victoria Under-19s,, Profile : A strong fast bowler who hits the bat hard, James Pattinson was one of the most exciting prospects in Australian cricket when he burst into Test cricket with five-wicket hauls in his first two matches in 2011 but it has been a stop-start career due to a series of back injuries. It was in one-day domestic cricket initially that he showed his early potential. In 2009-10 he swung the ball impressively during a match against New South Wales, his 6 for 48 the best figures ever by a Victorian in a domestic one-day game, breaking Graeme Watson's 40-year-old record. The national selectors certainly thought highly of his talent when they thrust him into a Cricket Australia contract in 2011 and then picked him for the Test tour of Sri Lanka when he had only six first-class matches to his name. He made his ODI debut in Bangladesh in 2011 and then demonstrated his enormous potential by taking a five-for on Test debut against New Zealand. But he would play just 17 Tests in five years, continuing to breakdown with repeat stress fractures in the lower back. In late 2017 it got to the point where Pattinson required the same lower spine surgery that New Zealand quick Shane Bond had to try and extend his career. He returned to the game in 2018-19 and had a superb summer for Victoria which eventually led to a place in the 2019 Ashes squad.The younger brother of Darren Pattinson, who played a Test for England in 2008, James honed his skills against his much older sibling in the backyard of their Melbourne home. Unlike the English-born Darren, James has only an Australian passport, having been born in Victoria after the family migrated. He has played county cricket for Nottinghamshire, where his brother Darren played for five seasons.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Billy Stanlake, Full Name : Billy James Stanlake, Country : Australia, Date of Birth : November 04, 1994, Hervey Bay, Australia, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : Australia,Adelaide Strikers,Australia A,Australia Under-19s,Cricket Australia Invitation XI,Derbyshire,Melbourne Stars,National Performance Squad,Queensland,Queensland Under-19s,Queensland Under-23s,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sunrisers Hyderabad,, Profile : An extremely tall fast bowler at 204 centimetres, Billy Stanlake won a surprise call-up to Australia's ODI squad in January 2017 to play against Pakistan. Stanlake impressed selectors with his pace and bounce, having debuted in all formats at domestic level during the 2015-16 summer. However, back injuries have caused problems for Stanlake and at the time of his ODI selection had played only two first-class games and four List A matches, as well as seven BBL games. Such was the excitement around his bowling he was handed a Cricket Australia contract for 2017-18, partly to manage his workloads, and he was bought by Royal Challenger Bangalore in the IPL. He played BBL and T20I cricket exclusively in the summer of 2017-18 and had his contract renewed after playing a key part in the Strikers BBL title and Australia T20I tri-series win over New Zealand and England. He joined Sunrisers Hyderabad in the 2018 IPL and played a big part in Australia's limited-overs tours of England, Zimbabwe and the UAE, and the Australia A tour of India. But he played just one ODI and two T20Is in the 2018-19 home summer as his form dipped. He returned to Sheffield Shield cricket playing two matches in March 2019 but lost his CA contract for 2019-20. Stanlake was also a talented Australian rules footballer in his youth, and his father Warren Stanlake played for AFL team Footscray.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Kane Williamson, Full Name : Kane Stuart Williamson, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : August 08, 1990, Tauranga, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : New Zealand,Barbados Tridents,Edmonton Royals,Gloucestershire,Gloucestershire 2nd XI,New Zealand A,New Zealand Cricket XI,New Zealand Emerging Players,New Zealand Under-19s,New Zealand XI,Northern Districts,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Yorkshire,, Profile : By the time Kane Williamson is finished with playing cricket, it is probable that he will be New Zealand's greatest batsman. Even Martin Crowe endorsed that view. But he may also finish as one of the game's most loved global figures. Williamson is ambidextrous, bats right-handed in the top order across formats, and has become a pillar of the New Zealand side since he made his debut in 2010.Williamson was born into a sporting family in Tauranga, the largest city in New Zealand's Bay of Plenty region. His father had played Under-17 cricket for Northern Districts, his mother was a representative basketball player, and his sisters played volleyball at age-group level. Williamson took to cricket and it grew beyond a hobby quite quickly.He was modest about his skills, too, - "Everyone is gifted, I guess, but you get some that seem exceptionally so. I'm not one of them," - yet Williamson was billed to make it since he was 14. He scored a century on Test debut at the age of 20, and at 24 years and 151 days he was the youngest New Zealand batsman to 3000 Test runs- younger than Don Bradman too.At the crease, Williamson is comfortable against pace and spin, and he trusts the coaching manual explicitly despite the mutation of batting in the Twenty20 era. Among his best performances is his maiden Test double-century in January 2015, which helped New Zealand come from behind and beat Sri Lanka in Wellington. The innings was a testament to Williamson's hunger for runs and batting time - he was dissatisfied despite making 242 in over 10 hours.Williamson has made his orthodoxy work and is capable of scoring at a brisk tempo - he has a T20 hundred for Northern Knights and became the quickest New Zealand batsman, and fifth overall, to 3000 ODI runs. For a measure of his consistency, he has two streaks of five or more successive fifty-plus scores in ODIs in 20 months since 2014.He is rarely drawn to emotion and is a genial, but hard, competitor - Williamson once struck the winning six in a roller-coaster, one-wicket win over Australia in the 2015 World Cup, and celebrated with a smile and the calmest of fist pumps as Eden Park exploded in raucous jubilation. Williamson is also an outstanding catcher and a part-time offspinner, though he needed to remodel his bowling after being banned from bowling in international cricket in June 2014 for an illegal action.With the mental strength to match his skills, Williamson was an automatic choice to take over the captaincy at the World T20 in 2016, soon after the retirement of the inspirational Brendon McCullum. Williamson led the team to four back-to-back victories in India, and was highly praised for his tactics that helped the team adapt to slow, turning pitches, before they were beaten by England in the semi-final.In 2018, Williamson led New Zealand to two famous Test series wins. In April, he became the fourth New Zealand captain to win a series against England. In December, he was the chief architect of New Zealand's first away Test series win over Pakistan in 49 years, with 89 and 139 in the final Test. He became the first New Zealander to score 20 Test centuries in 2019 with an unbeaten double century against Bangladesh at home. But he elevated himself into the global pantheon of greats at the 2019 World Cup, where he was not only named player of the tournament but he carried himself with unprecedented class as the trophy was snatched from New Zealand's hands by England in the greatest final of all time. He made two match-winning centuries against South Africa and West Indies and a vital 67 in a famous semi-final win against India to get New Zealand to a second successive World Cup final. His captaincy and calmness among the mayhem of a tied final and tied Super Over was extraordinary. His conduct in the aftermath having lost the Cup on a one-off tie-break provision where the team with the most boundaries wins, was even more incredible.
Alagappan Muthu
Name : Neil Wagner, Full Name : Neil Wagner, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : March 13, 1986, Pretoria, Transvaal, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm medium fast, Teams : New Zealand,Lancashire,New Zealand A,Northerns,Otago,, Profile : An indefatigable left-arm seamer, Neil Wagner is among several South African-born recruits plying their trade in New Zealand and, latterly, in English county cricket. Although not express pace, Wagner's strength is an ability to swing the ball combined with a tenacious attitude. Once known only for his new-ball exploits, Wagner has added reverse swing to his repertoire to become a more complete bowler, capable of taking wickets even in unhelpful conditions.After a four-year stand down period to be eligible for New Zealand, Wagner, a Test match specialist, struggled to regularly make the first choice XI early in his international career.  A match haul of 8 for 126 in a 40-run victory over India at Eden Park in February 2014 demanded a more regular selection.Wagner's heroics in Christchurch against Australia in 2016 epitomised him as a cricketer. He suffered a broken bowling knuckle on the ring finger of his bowling hand while trying to hold a catch from Joe Burns, but soldiered on through the pain, emerging with then career-best figures of 6 for 106 in Australia's first innings and seven in the match. He was New Zealand's most successful Test bowler statistically in 2016, taking 32 wickets at 21 from seven matches.Wagner learnt his cricket at Afrikaans High School for Boys in Pretoria and made an impact in his first-class debut in 2005-06 for Northerns, taking two four-wicket hauls. He then toured Zimbabwe and Bangladesh with the National Academy side in 2006-07, and even fielded as the twelfth man in two Tests in Centurion. Despite finishing as the highest overall wicket-taker in the 2006-07 Provincial Challenge (39 wickets), Wagner had to look at other options due to the quota system. While in England, he nearly landed a contract with Sussex, but opted to try his luck in New Zealand following positive feedback from Canterbury players. The move turned out to be an excellent one as Wagner took 21 wickets for Otago in his opening season, but easily bettered it thereafter: in 2010-11 he was the leading wicket-taker in the Plunket Shield, and in the next season he again topped the charts with 46 wickets at 26.32. A national call-up came soon, when he was named in New Zealand's Test squad for the West Indies tour in 2012. Wagner has had county cricket spells with Northmptonshire and Lancashire.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Tim Southee, Full Name : Timothy Grant Southee, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : December 11, 1988, Whangarei, Northland, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : New Zealand,Chennai Super Kings,Essex,Kolkata Knight Riders,Mumbai Indians,New Zealand Under-19s,Northern Districts,Rajasthan Royals,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Vancouver Knights,, Profile : Tim Southee, a right-arm swing bowler, burst upon the international scene in great style. He was still only 19, with only one T20I cap behind him, and fresh from a Player-of-the-Tournament performance at the 2008 Under-19 World Cup when he was handed a Test debut against England in Napier. Southee responded with 5 for 55 before smashing 77 off 40 balls in the second innings with nine sixes.It was a debut that gave a clear indication of the career to come. Over the next decade or so, Southee would go on to form one of the world's best new-ball partnerships with Trent Boult, and would also come to be known for his ability to clear the fence. He hit his 50th six in only his 36th Test, and could one day take the Test record for most sixes from his long-time captain Brendon McCullum.Pace and outswing, however, are the main tools of Southee's trade. His bag of 18 wickets at 17.33 in the 2011 World Cup prompted Allan Donald to say he had the potential to become the best swing bowler in the world, and though frequent injury-forced absences have kept him from fulfilling that prophecy, he has shown he can be devastating across a wide range of conditions.In 2012, he showed his adaptability in the subcontinent, picking up 7 for 64 in Bangalore, the best figures for a New Zealand bowler in India, before bowling his side to a rare win in Sri Lanka with match figures of 8 for 120 at the P Sara Oval. Two years later, his 11 wickets in the West Indies, at 21.09, helped New Zealand achieve their first series win away from home, against anyone other than Bangladesh or Zimbabwe, in 12 years. In ODIs, his landmark performance came at the 2015 World Cup, when he sliced through England's batting with a sensational spell of swing bowling to finish with figures of 7 for 33, the best bowling figures for a New Zealander in ODIs.Such is his standing in New Zealand cricket, Southee was elevated as a stand in captain in a T20I in 2017 and then an ODI in 2018. But despite standing in as captain and remaining a key Test and T20 bowler, he fell out of favour in the ODI side due to the form of Matt Henry and Lockie Ferguson and only played one match in the 2019 World Cup. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Daniel Vettori, Full Name : Daniel Luca Vettori, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : January 27, 1979, Auckland, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : New Zealand,Delhi Daredevils,ICC World XI,Jamaica Tallawahs,Northern Districts,Nottinghamshire,Queensland,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Warwickshire,, Profile : Daniel Vettori has been on the international scene so long it is sometimes hard to believe he has only recently crossed into his thirties. The youngest man to play Test cricket for New Zealand, at the age of 18, he is one of only eight players to have managed the double of 300 Test wickets and 3000 runs. With time on his side, he could one day creep up towards Hadlee's 431 Test dismissals, but to do that Vettori would need to avoid the stress fractures in his back that troubled him earlier in his career. He also cannot afford another form slump like the one he suffered in 2003-04. He bounced back from that one, returning to his best, and his mastery of drift and subtle variations in flight, speed and length earned him a reputation as New Zealand's most dangerous player. It was that guile and ability to confuse the batsmen that sometimes turned what seemed like innocuous deliveries into unplayable hand grenades by the time they reached the other end. He troubled Australia with 12 for 149 at Eden Park in March 2000, giving him his first ten-wicket Test. He continued to peak whenever he faced Australia, and also feasted against Bangladesh in 2004, taking 20 for 224 in the two-match rout. He was recognised alongside Muttiah Muralitharan as one of the best spinners outside Australia for the Super Series in 2005-06, and was one of six players to represent the World XI in the Test and all three one-dayers. A more than handy lower-order batsman, he is the most prolific No. 8 in Tests. He was installed as captain for the Twenty20 World Championship in 2007 and took over from Fleming as the Test captain ahead of their two-Test tour of South Africa. However, retirements and the ICL saw New Zealand slip in the world rankings, and Vettori was saddled with more responsibilities than he could have imagined - including that of selector in 2009. Positive results, especially in Tests, were hard to come by but it didn't affect Vettori's form, and on many occasions his lower-order batting has come to the rescue.  Brydon Coverdale
Name : Mitchell Santner, Full Name : Mitchell Josef Santner, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : February 05, 1992, Hamilton, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : New Zealand,Barbados Tridents,Chennai Super Kings,Derbyshire,New Zealand A,New Zealand Cricket XI,New Zealand Masters,New Zealand XI,Northern Districts,Northern Districts A,Northern Districts Under-19s,Worcestershire,Worcestershire 2nd XI,, Profile : A left-handed batsman and left-arm spinner, Mitchell Santner was first elevated to the New Zealand side after a promising 2014-15 domestic season. He was named in the one-day squad for the tour of England following the retirement of Daniel Vettori after the World Cup as New Zealand searched for another left-arm spin option. Santner was in to cover for the absence of the players at the IPL but made an immediate impression with a well-crafted 94 in a tour game against Somerset. He was handed his ODI debut at Edgbaston having played just 19 List A matches for Northern Districts. "It's nice to have a left-arm spinner who turns," was a quip from the New Zealand camp.He made his Test debut later that year in the first ever day-night Test against Australia in Adelaide and made 31 and 45 batting at No.6 in both innings in a low-scoring game. He also took two wickets. Over the next four years his Test opportunities were limited but he became a mainstay in the white-ball teams for the Black Caps. His performances were so impressive that he was bought by the Chennai Super Kings in 2019 IPL to play under Stephen Fleming. He won a game by hitting a six off the last ball of the match against Rajasthan and took 2 for 13 from 4 overs in the IPL final against Mumbai, including the prized scalp of Rohit Sharma. His experience in that cauldron held him in good stead for the 2019 World Cup in England. He bowled a clutch spell in the semi-final win over India, strangling their middle order to help secure a spot in the final against England. Later in the same year he recorded a maiden Test century during an epic partnership with BJ Watling. The 261 they added was New Zealand's highest seventh-wicket stand in history and helped their side to 615-9, their highest Test total against England. The three wickets he claimed in England's second-innings also constituted new Test-best figures and helped New Zealand to a crushing innings victory.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Trent Boult, Full Name : Trent Alexander Boult, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : July 22, 1989, Rotorua, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast medium, Teams : New Zealand,Delhi Capitals,Kolkata Knight Riders,Mumbai Indians,New Zealand A,New Zealand Cricket XI,New Zealand Emerging Players,New Zealand Under-19s,New Zealand XI,Northern Districts,Sunrisers Hyderabad,, Profile : Rated as one half of the best new-ball pair in New Zealand history by Sir Richard Hadlee, Trent Boult is a left-arm quick who presents a significant threat to batsmen around the world with an ability to move the ball both ways even in unresponsive conditions.Born in the Bay of Plenty region in New Zealand's North Island, Boult is, in the words of his brother Jono, a "normal sort of Kiwi young guy into his golf and fishing and surfing." Cricket, though, was his calling. He lived in a neighbourhood which included eventual New Zealand team-mates Kane Williamson and Doug Bracewell, and had the backing of a supportive household that also kept him grounded. Signs of his skill were evident even as a teenager. As a 17-year-old, he was named the fastest secondary school bowler in the country. A year later, he was representing New Zealand at the Under-19 World Cup.The transition to senior cricket, though, was not quite seamless. Boult suffered a stress fracture of the back in 2009 which put him out of cricket for two years and taught him to concentrate on strength and conditioning. There was speculation that the injury was a consequence of tinkering with his bowling action. So, under the supervision of one of his idols, Shane Bond, Boult reverted to the action he had used as a boy and the results were more than promising. By 2015, he was capable of long spells without wavering too far below the 140kph mark. He became one of New Zealand's irreplaceable players across formats and one of many protagonists in the side's march to their first World Cup final in 2015. Boult had a tough time breaking into the limited-overs sides at first, due to a perception that he doesn't move the white ball as much as the red one. But his effectiveness in Test cricket was too compelling to ignore: he raced past 100 wickets in his 29th match and in 2013, only two years since his debut, he was New Zealand's top-wicket taker. With Brendon McCullum placing a high premium on attacking cricket in the shorter versions as well and Boult proving himself as a bowler who preferred getting batsmen out rather than keeping them quiet, it was a perfect fit. Confirmation came in World Cup 2015 when he ended up the joint-leading wicket taker with 22 scalps in nine matches including 5 for 27 in an epic victory over Australia. His worth in T20 cricket was emphasised by a (approximately) $600,000 payday in the IPL.Boult's strength, according to Northern Districts coach John Pamment, is that, "he's got a lovely wrist position and the fact that the wrist goes right behind the ball gives him that control." Another asset for Boult is friend and sounding board Tim Southee. When on song, their partnership makes for compelling viewing, not to mention telling numbers. In 2014, the pair picked up nearly half the wickets New Zealand took - 67 of 143 - en route to the side's most successful Test year, with five wins in nine matches. The pair have both raced past 200 Test wickets and by 2019 occupy third and fourth on New Zealand's all-time Test wicket-taking list behind Hadlee and Daniel Vettori. Boult was again magnificent in the 2019 World Cup helping lead New Zealand's attack taking 17 wickets. He took a hat-trick against Australia, and the key wicket of Virat Kohli in the semi-final win over India. He bowled the last over and the Super Over in the tied final against England and without some misfortune he may have won the World Cup for his nation. Boult is also among the few fast bowlers who are exceptional fielders, and has a particular knack for one-handed blinders.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Todd Astle, Full Name : Todd Duncan Astle, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : September 24, 1986, Palmerston North, New Zealand, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : New Zealand,Canterbury,New Zealand A,New Zealand Academy,, Profile : Once a mediocre opening batsman for Canterbury, Todd Astle moved down the order and began to focus on his promising legspin to firm up his place in the side in 2009. He has reaped the rewards of his transformation since, bagging three five-wicket hauls in five first-class matches in his first year as an allrounder and taking over 30 wickets in each of the past two seasons as well. He has not had the opportunity to make big contributions with the bat in his new role, but remains capable and has developed a reputation as a tenacious fielder to boot. An injury to Daniel Vettori and Tarun Nethula's dip in domestic form saw Astle named in New Zealand's squad for two Tests in Sri Lanka in November 2012. 
Andrew Fernando
Name : Martin Guptill, Full Name : Martin James Guptill, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : September 30, 1986, Auckland, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : New Zealand,Auckland,Barbados Tridents,Derbyshire,Guyana Amazon Warriors,Karachi Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Mumbai Indians,New Zealand Academy,New Zealand Under-19s,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Sunrisers Hyderabad,, Profile : Few players in world cricket play the short-arm pull on one leg with elegance like Martin Guptill. A right-handed opening batsman, Guptill has consistently been among the runs in ODIs notably making a double-century in the quarter-final of the 2015 World Cup, but has struggled to make a mark in Tests.One of the reasons he hasn't had success in the longest format is his preference to play with hard hands and drive on the up. With the red ball's tendency to move more than the white one, and pitches for multi-day cricket being more responsive to swing and seam, Guptill has not been the force he could have been in Tests and has not played a Test match since 2016. Fairly odd for a man who plays some of the most pristine straight-bat shots. Guptill showed he had it in him to dominate all formats, winning the Richard Hadlee Medal in 2011-12 along with being named ODI and T20 player of the year at the New Zealand Cricket awards. He claimed the latter two back in 2015-16 thanks in no small part to the 237 not out he made against West Indies in Wellington during the 2015 World Cup, the second-highest ODI score of all time. He was also the tournament's leading scorer with 547 runs, just ahead of two all-time greats in Kumar Sangakkara and AB de Villiers. In 2018, he become New Zealand's fourth player to reach 6000 ODI runs and entered the 2019 World Cup in red-hot form but failed to have the impact he did in 2015.  Despite his struggles, New Zealand entrusted him with batting in the Super Over in the thrilling final against England. The only ball he faced was the last, with two runs to win, he was run out agonisingly short of the winning second run that would have handed New Zealand the World Cup. The first time Guptill gained recognition was in 2007-08, topping the overall State Shield run-charts. His efforts took Auckland to the final, and he carried his purple patch into the Emerging Players tournament in Australia, finishing as New Zealand's highest scorer. That earned him a call-up to the A side and then to the ODI and Test squads. His growth as a player on the world stage was highlighted by the contracts given to him by Derbyshire and Lancashire in the English county, Sydney Thunder in the Australian Big Bash League, Mumbai Indians, Kings XI Punjab and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL, St Kitts and Nevis Patriots and Guyana Amazon Warriors, who made him captain for the 2016 edition of the Caribbean Premier League.ESPNcricinfostaff
Name : Kyle Jamieson, Full Name : Kyle Alex Jamieson, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : December 30, 1994, Auckland, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : New Zealand,Auckland,Canterbury,New Zealand Under-19s,Royal Challengers Bangalore,, Profile : The first thing that strikes you about Kyle Jamieson is his height. At 6'8", he is one of the tallest fast bowlers in the circuit. And like most people who send a cricket ball down from such awkward heights, he is known for getting awkward bounce. So much so that batsmen forget that he has a phenomenal fuller delivery. Especially when it starts to hoop in at the stumps. Jamieson was born and bred in Auckland. He even plays domestic cricket for them now, but it was during his time at Canterbury that he first rose to the national spotlight. The right-arm quick, playing in the 2019 Super Smash, picked up 6 for 7 in four overs. Those figures are a New Zealand T20 record, and they have been bettered by only three men in the entire world. Jamieson made his international debut in February 2020 against India and was one of the key players in an incredibly close match at Eden Park. He has since been viewed as an asset for New Zealand in all forms of cricket and has been especially potent in Test matches. He took two five-fors in his first four matches and has also shown a lot of competence with the bat as well. Although he has only begun his career, the heights he might reach already look scary.
Name : Adam Milne, Full Name : Adam Fraser Milne, Country : New Zealand, Date of Birth : April 13, 1992, Palmerston North, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : New Zealand,Birmingham Phoenix (Men),Central Districts,Kent,Mumbai Indians,New Zealand A,New Zealand XI,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sydney Thunder,, Profile : A lanky right-arm fast bowler, Adam Milne made a dream first-class debut as an 18-year-old in the 2009-10 season, taking a wicket with his second ball and finishing with 4 for 52 against Canterbury. The call-up only came because Michael Mason was called up to the New Zealand team due to Jacob Oram's injury. Milne was included in Central District's Twenty20 squad for the Champions League 2010 even though he didn't play a single game for them in the domestic HRV Cup. He played two matches in the tournament and impressed with his pace and was quickly touted as New Zealand's fastest bowler since Shane Bond. He was included in New Zealand's squad for their Twenty20 series against Pakistan in December 2010. The start was expensive and injuries disrupted his first-class career, before he returned to the headlines when picked in New Zealand's squad for the 2012 World Twenty20 in Sri Lanka. Knowing what a precious resource they had with his pace - he showed he could push the speed gun over 150kph - and continued problems with injuries, a very cautious approach was taken with Milne which limited his first-class exposure. From a considerable way out, New Zealand wanted him part of the 2015 World Cup squad and he duly slotted in as the third frontline quick before his tournament was ended by injury after the quarter-final.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Sachin Tendulkar, Full Name : Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar, Country : India, Date of Birth : April 24, 1973, Bombay (now Mumbai), Maharashtra, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Legbreak googly, Teams : India,Asia XI,Mumbai,Mumbai Indians,Yorkshire,, Profile : Sachin Tendulkar has been the most complete batsman of his time, the most prolific runmaker of all time, and arguably the biggest cricket icon the game has ever known. His batting was based on the purest principles: perfect balance, economy of movement, precision in stroke-making, and that intangible quality given only to geniuses - anticipation. If he didn't have a signature stroke - the upright, back-foot punch comes close - it's because he was equally proficient at each of the full range of orthodox shots (and plenty of improvised ones as well) and can pull them out at will. There were no apparent weaknesses in Tendulkar's game. He could score all around the wicket, off both front foot and back, could tune his technique to suit every condition, temper his game to suit every situation, and made runs in all parts of the world in all conditions.Some of his finest performances came against Australia, the overwhelmingly dominant team of his era. His century as a 19-year-old on a lightning-fast pitch at the WACA is considered one of the best innings ever to have been played in Australia. A few years later he received the ultimate compliment from the ultimate batsman: Don Bradman confided to his wife that Tendulkar reminded him of himself.Blessed with the keenest of cricket minds, and armed with a loathing for losing, Tendulkar set about doing what it took to become one of the best batsmen in the world. His greatness was established early: he was only 16 when he made his Test debut. He was hit on the mouth by Waqar Younis but continued to bat, in a blood-soaked shirt. His first Test hundred, a match-saving one at Old Trafford, came when he was 17, and he had 16 Test hundreds before he turned 25. In 2000 he became the first batsman to have scored 50 international hundreds, in 2008 he passed Brian Lara as the leading Test run-scorer, and in the years after, he went past 13,000 Test runs 30,000 international runs, and 50 Test hundreds.He currently holds the record for most hundreds in both Tests and ODIs - remarkable, considering he didn't score his first ODI hundred till his 79th match. Incredibly, he retained a divine enthusiasm for the game till his last match. At 36 years and 306 days he broke a 40-year-old barrier by scoring the first double-century in one-day cricket. In 2012, when just one month short of his 39th birthday, he became the first player to score 100 international centuries, which like Bradman's batting average, could be a mark that lasts for ever. Later that year, though, he announced his retirement from ODIs after a disappointing 18 months in international cricket. And on November 16, 2013, Tendulkar retired from Test cricket after a memorable 200th Test, on his home ground at the Wankhede Stadium against West Indies. Tendulkar's considerable achievements seem greater still when looked at in the light of the burden of expectations he had to bear from his adoring but somewhat unreasonable followers, who have been prone to regard anything less than a hundred in each innings as a failure. The aura may have dimmed, if only slightly, as the years on the international circuit took their toll on the body, but Tendulkar remains, by a distance, the most worshipped cricketer in the world.
Sambit Bal
Name : Virender Sehwag, Full Name : Virender Sehwag, Country : India, Date of Birth : October 20, 1978, Delhi, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : India,Asia XI,Delhi,Delhi Daredevils,ICC World XI,India Blue,Kings XI Punjab,Leicestershire,Marylebone Cricket Club,Rajasthan Cricket Association President's XI,, Profile : Virender Sehwag has constructed an extraordinary career with a relentless quest, and a genius, for boundary hitting. With minimal footwork but maximum intent, he has piled Test runs at a faster pace than anyone in the history of cricket. Bowlers must always fancy their chances against a batsman who plays so many strokes; it's just that Sehwag fancies his chances against them much more.As a starry-eyed youngster from Najafgarh, where his family ran a flour mill, Sehwag grew up, like many others from his generation, wanting to be Sachin Tendulkar. Indeed, when he scored his first one-day hundred, filling up for his injured idol against New Zealand in Sri Lanka, he could have been mistaken for him: there was the same back-foot punch on the off side, the minimalistic straight drive and the wristy whip to the leg. And on his Test debut, on a fiery pitch in Bloemfontein, he matched the master stroke for stroke as they both blazed away to hundreds. But soon he emerged his own man, and not long after Tendulkar was playing a supporting, and somewhat calming, hand as Sehwag romped away to a triple-hundred, the first by an Indian, in Multan, bringing it up with a six. Two Tests ago, he had been dismissed trying the same stroke five short of what would have been his first Test double-hundred.His uncomplicated approach - batting is all about scoring as many runs as quickly as possible - belies a sharp and street-smart cricket mind. He has a keen grasp of his own, and his opponents', strengths and weaknesses and exploits them in a forensic manner. What appears risky to many, is merely an opportunity for him, and his lack of footwork, which does get him in trouble against the moving ball, is mostly an advantage, for it creates space for his brilliant handwork. Few batsmen have hit the ball harder square on the off side, and fewer still have hit them as frequently. And the sight of a spinner brings the savage out in him: and for many spectacular assaults against the world's leading spinners, there have numerous outrageous dismissals against the not-so-reputed ones.The most remarkable aspect of Sehwag's career of course has been his ability to build massive scores at breathtaking speed. He holds the Indian record for highest number of Test double-hundreds, and came within seven runs of becoming the first batsman to score three triple-hundreds. That innings, against Sri Lanka at the Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai, epitomised the Sehwag brand of batsmanship: a mix of imagination, daring, power, skills, and clarity of vision. His ODI career doesn't have as many high points, and yet he held the record for the highest score in that format at one point, scoring an astonishing 219 against West Indies in Indore. The most remarkable feature of the innings was the ease with which he reached the landmark, completing his double-hundred with more than six overs to spare.  Sehwag is equally refreshing off the field and shares his views on the game in an endearingly direct and candid manner, a rare trait among contemporary cricketers. He is, in every sense, a true original.Sambit Bal
Name : MS Dhoni, Full Name : Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Country : India, Date of Birth : July 07, 1981, Ranchi, Bihar (now Jharkhand), Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : India,Air India Blue,Asia XI,Bihar,Bradman XI,Chennai Super Kings,East Zone,East Zone Under-19s,Help for Heroes XI,India A,India Seniors,Indian Board President's XI,International XI,Jharkhand,Jharkhand Under-19s,Rajasthan Cricket Association President's XI,Rest of India,Rising Pune Supergiants,Sehwag XI,, Profile : Barring Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni is probably the most popular and definitely the most scrutinised cricketer from India. He has got to this point coming from the cricketing backwaters, the mining state of Jharkhand, and through a home-made batting and wicketkeeping technique, and a style of captaincy that scales the highs and lows of both conservatism and unorthodoxy. Under Dhoni's captaincy, India have won the top prize in all formats: topping the Test rankings for 18 months starting December 2009, the 50-over World Cup in 2011 and the World T20 on his captaincy debut in 2007.Dhoni, then a ticket inspector with the Indian Railways, had escaped all attention bar the odd whisper among the followers of club cricket in Kolkata until he was 23, when he blasted two centuries in a triangular 50-over tournament for India A in Nairobi. Long-haired and fearless, he soon swaggered into international cricket, and became an instant darling of the crowds with ODI innings of 148 and 183 within a year of his debut.Dhoni demonstrated all that was right with the new middle-class India. He didn't respect reputations, but never disrespected either. He improvised, he learned, but didn't apologise for his batting style, which was not the most elegant. He became a multi-faceted ODI batsman, one who could accumulate, one who could rebuild, and one who could still unleash those big sixes.Along the way Dhoni showed leadership skills, which were recognised when Rahul Dravid gave up the captaincy in 2007. Just before that announcement from Dravid, Dhoni had taken a bunch of kids to South Africa and was leading India to a World Cup win in a format the country didn't even take seriously. The ODI captaincy was natural progression, and Anil Kumble just kept the seat warm in Tests for a year.Dhoni brought to captaincy a thick skin and relative indifference to results that an Indian captain needs to keep the job for long. Along with coach Gary Kirsten, he put his senior performers in a comfortable place, and they returned the favour with some of their best years in international cricket. His calmness on the field helped and worked like a charm in the shorter formats, although tactically he sometimes sat back for too long in Tests. All that can't argue with the fact that India had some of their best years in Test cricket, in terms of tangible achievement, under Dhoni.However, post the 50-over World Cup win in 2011, which Dhoni sealed with a timely 91 and his patented helicopter shot, an ageing team kept losing in unfamiliar conditions. After eight straight Test losses away from home, Dhoni the captain came under immense pressure, which was accentuated by a 2-1 home series loss to England in 2012-13, the first time India had lost at home in more than eight years. This brought out a new chapter in Dhoni's career wherein he seemed more assertive as a captain, started building a new team, played his best Test innings on a turner to win India the Chennai Test against Australia, and became the first captain to lead India to four wins in a series.  Away from home in the winter of 2013-14, India lost Test series in South Africa and New Zealand by 1-0 margins that did not reflect how close they came close to wins on both tours. The England tour of 2014 began promisingly, with a drawn first Test followed by a historic win at Lord's, but India crashed to earth immediately afterwards to lose the series 3-1. At Old Trafford and The Oval, with the batting crumbling around him, Dhoni played a couple of his bravest innings in Tests, dealing with the seam movement and bounce by stepping down the pitch and taking blows on his body.Wins once again proved elusive on the tour of Australia that followed, though India competed ferociously thanks to a young batting core led by Kohli. Kohli had captained the side in the first Test, with Dhoni injured, and he would lead them in the fourth Test too, with Dhoni making a surprise announcement after the third Test in Melbourne that he was retiring from the longest format.Though his game was not as suited to Tests as it was to limited-overs cricket, Dhoni ended his career in whites with a proud record for a wicketkeeper: 4876 runs at an average of just over 38, and six hundreds. He had also captained India to more Test wins - 27 - than anyone else. Dhoni continued to lead India in the shorter formats, and they shrugged off a win-less tour of Australia by reaching the semi-finals of the 2015 World Cup. A year later, they won the Asia Cup T20 in Bangladesh but exited the World T20 in the semi-finals, at home. Dhoni enjoyed a good tournament as a finisher, scoring 89 runs while only being dismissed once in five innings; he showed electric reflexes while keeping to the spinners, eventually playing on till the 2019 World Cup, though he gave up the limited-overs captaincy in January 2017.  India's defeat to New Zealand in the semi-final of the 2019 World Cup turned out to be Dhoni's final international match, although that wasn't officially confirmed till more than a year later. In the immediate aftermath of that result, there was lots of speculation about whether Dhoni would call it quits. He didn't, but he did opt out of India's series for the rest of 2019 and early 2020. The Covid-19 pandemic then brought all sporting action to a halt. Just as players' preparations for the delayed IPL began, in August, on India's Independence Day, Dhoni made the big announcement - on Instagram. He was retiring from all international cricket.In the IPL, Dhoni has been the face of the Chennai Super Kings franchise. He became so deeply associated with the city that he even became a co-owner of a Chennai-based football franchise. But in 2016, with Super Kings suspended for two seasons over issues stemming from the spot-fixing scandal of 2013, he was part of the IPL's new franchise Rising Pune Supergiants. Super Kings were reinstated in 2018 and Dhoni was back at the helm, leading the team to a fairytale third title. He almost repeated the feat in 2019, losing a thrilling final against Mumbai Indians by just 1 run.Sidharth Monga
Name : Virat Kohli, Full Name : Virat Kohli, Country : India, Date of Birth : November 05, 1988, Delhi, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : India,Delhi,India A,India Blue,India Emerging Players,India Red,India Under-19s,Indian Board President's XI,North Zone,Oil & Natural Gas Corporation,Rest of India,Royal Challengers Bangalore,, Profile : India has given to the world many a great cricketer but perhaps none as ambitious as Virat Kohli. To meet his ambition, Kohli employed the technical assiduousness of Sachin Tendulkar and fitness that was in the league of top athletes in the world, not just cricketers. As a result, Kohli became the most consistent all-format accumulator of his time, making jaw-dropping chases look easy, and finding, in his own words, the safest possible way to score runs. Plenty of them.This ambition transferred seamlessly to his captaincy: he demanded more than ever of his bowlers especially the quick ones, often sacrificed a batsman for bowling depth, and led India to a long stay at No. 1 in Test rankings and a first-ever series win in Australia. He is well on his way to end up as India's most successful Test captain.  Barring one in Bangladesh, Kohli scored Test hundreds in and against every country he played. He absolutely smashed records for number of matches taken to reach eight, nine, ten and eleven thousand ODI runs. He was a genuine threat to Sachin Tendulkar's record of 49 ODI and 51 Test hundreds. An Under-19 world Cup-winning captain, when he burst onto the scene, Kohli was a precocious talent with a cover drive to kill for. He was destined to be India's next big batsman as the Tendulkar era began to retire, but Kohli wanted to be more: a cricketer whom the opposition would be in awe of, a cricketer whose presence would raise the intensity of the contest. He lived every ball, competed each moment, and made sure he had the fitness and strength to do so. He was widely credited for changing the fitness culture in Indian cricket, introducing endurance tests as a criterion for selection. Kohli was quite simply India's most powerful captain. Centre of every marketing campaign for Indian cricket, he also happened to lead at a time when the BCCI was run by interim administrators who knew better than to draw the ire of Indian cricket's biggest star. There was never any cause to doubt his intent: to do things that will win matches for India, which they did plenty under him.
Name : Ishant Sharma, Full Name : Ishant Sharma, Country : India, Date of Birth : September 02, 1988, Delhi, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : India,Deccan Chargers,Delhi,Delhi Capitals,India A,India Blue,India Red,India Under-19s,Kings XI Punjab,Kolkata Knight Riders,North Zone,Oil & Natural Gas Corporation,Rest of India,Rising Pune Supergiants,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sussex,, Profile : With a physique and attitude that is reminiscent of a young Javagal Srinath, Ishant Sharma shot into prominence during the 2007-08 Test series in Australia. Standing at 6'4", his rhythmic, high-arm action allowed him to bowl at around 140 kph. For one who started serious cricket at 14, his rise was rapid and he made his Ranji Trophy debut at 18. An injury to Munaf Patel provided him an opening during India's tour of Bangladesh in May 2007 but it was in Australia where he caught the attention, prompting Steve Waugh to call him the next best thing in Indian cricket. He showed he could move the ball both ways and his probing spell in the second innings in Perth, where he set-up Ricky Ponting, is the stuff of folklore. He continued to impress in the one-day series, clocking more than 150kph once, and ended as India's highest wicket-taker in the triumphant campaign. The glory days continued through his debut season, with a notable performance against South Africa, followed by 15 wickets in four Tests in the succesful home series against Australia in 2008, and a couple of strong shows in Sri Lanka in ODIs. By now Ishant was clearly Zaheer Khan's deputy in the Indian seam arsenal, but things have gone seriously wrong since. Some have blamed it on his being over-bowled, particularly on flat tracks in the IPL, while others point to a malaise that has afflicted all of India's new crop of fast bowlers. The fact remains that Ishant lost the most crucial aspect of his bowling - his pace. Without it, his natural short-of-a-good-length that had tormented batsmen of Ponting's calibre a season earlier lost its venom. Eventually the loss of pace led to a loss of self-confidence. The Indian selectors decided to be careful and began shielding him from the shorter formats of the game in 2009 in the hope that he would rediscover his zip. His struggle continued but given India's limited seam-bowling resources at the time, Ishant was persisted with, even after an ankle surgery in 2012 that put him out of action for months. When he completed 50 Tests in early 2013 he had among the worst averages for bowlers with 50 Test caps to their name.Since then Ishant has somewhat revived his Test career. He was impressive on the tour of New Zealand, being the top wicket-taker in Tests with 15 wickets that included two five-wicket hauls. On his next overseas assignment, in England, Ishant was the hero of India's famous win at Lord's when he bounced out the England batsmen with his spell of 7 for 74, helping India to a 1-0 lead in the Test series. It was perhaps one of his best performances for India in whites.  He soon suffered a leg injury and was ruled out for the following two Tests. He did return for the fifth Test but his 4 for 96 was only part of an embarrassing innings defeat for India. He then went back to Australia, the country that had kick-started his career, but he could only manage mediocre performances in the three Tests he was a part of. His landing foot was proving to be a constant irritant to his fitness and the fast bowler picked up another injury, this time to his knee and was ruled out of the ODI tri-series that followed. Ishant failed to recover in time for the World Cup and was replaced by Mohit Sharma.Siddhartha Vaidyanathan
Name : Rohit Sharma, Full Name : Rohit Gurunath Sharma, Country : India, Date of Birth : April 30, 1987, Bansod, Nagpur, Maharashtra, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : India,Air India,Deccan Chargers,India A,India Blue,India Green,India Red,India Under-19s,Indian Board President's XI,Indian Oil Corporation XI,Mumbai,Mumbai Cricket Association President's XI,Mumbai Cricket Association XI,Mumbai Indians,Mumbai Under-19s,Rest of India,West Zone,, Profile : For a large part of his career, it seemed Rohit Sharma's biggest gift was his biggest burden. Languid, easy on the eye, all shots in his armoury, Sharma emerged from Mumbai's suburbs as the heir apparent to the batting greats of the 2000s. Ironically his IPL franchise nicknamed him "Hitman" when he was anything but: more caresser, less hitter. However, it took time and persistence for him to become the double-hundred machine and IPL-winning phenomenon that he eventually became.  That Sharma had the talent was apparent to both the casual observer and to the trained eye. So while it took time for that batting talent to translate into runs, the casual observers kept getting frustrated, and the trained eyes of the selectors and captains kept backing him. It had Sharma frustrated too, who began to hate the word "talent", which became a pejorative nickname for him on social media. Once it all clicked, though - move to open the batting in ODIs late in 2012 was one particular turning point - it did so spectacularly.Sharma scored ODI double-hundreds for fun, won five IPLs in its first 12 editions, scored five hundreds at the 2019 ODI World Cup, and when he finally got to open in Tests in 2019, three quick hundreds in his first series, one of them a double. Sharma became one of the colossal six-hitters of his era. So spectacular and certain was his acceleration that people began anticipate a double-century every time he went past a score of 50.Along the way, his captaincy at Mumbai Indians, whom he led to four titles, won plaudits. He was methodical, studious and calm, using all available technology and data to arrive at decisions. He was an able deputy to Virat Kohli in limited-overs formats in international cricket, winning India two titles in Kohli's absence.Sidharth Monga
Name : Krunal Pandya, Full Name : Krunal Himanshu Pandya, Country : India, Date of Birth : March 24, 1991, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : India,Baroda,Baroda Cricket Association XI,Baroda Under-15s,Baroda Under-17s,Baroda Under-19s,India A,India Blue,Mumbai Indians,, Profile : Krunal Pandya, an allrounder and brother of Hardik Pandya, was drawn to the game as a result of his father Himanshu, taking his sons to the stadium in Vadodara when the cricket carnival came to town. The brothers started training at Kiran More's academy in the city. Krunal, who is seen as a limited-overs specialist, has played 4 List A games and 15 T20s for Baroda. However, he hasn't played since March 2015 due to a labral tear in his shoulder that required surgery. He did get picked up in the IPL auction by Mumbai Indians for INR 2 crores.
Name : Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Full Name : Bhuvneshwar Kumar Singh, Country : India, Date of Birth : February 05, 1990, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : India,Australian Institute of Sport,Central Zone,India A,India Blue,India Emerging Players,India Red,Indian Tobacco Company,Pune Warriors,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Uttar Pradesh,Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association XI,, Profile : Bhuvneshwar Kumar, like the other wily Kumar, Praveen, comes from Meerut, a northern Indian town known for - among other things - the industrial production of sports goods, most famously those under the brand SG. No wonder then that once thrown the new SG ball, Bhuvneshwar can make it hoop around corners, mostly back into the right-hand batsman but he gets it to hold its line often enough to be a genuine threat. Like the other Kumar, though, Bhuvneshwar operates at a middling pace of early 130s, but India weren't spoilt enough for choices to deny him an international debut season at the age of 22, in late 2012.Bhuvneshwar said a roaring hello to international cricket. In his first international over, he bowled Nasir Jamshed; with his first ODI delivery, he bowled Mohammad Hafeez; and in his first Test series he played a part in India's first whitewash of a four-Test series. Apart from the swing, Bhuvneshwar's control of it and his cricketing smartness stand out. It stood out the time when he, as a 19-year-old, worked Sachin Tendulkar over for his first first-class duck in Indian domestic cricket. The cricketing smartness showed with the bat too when he scored 128 batting at No. 8, winning a Duleep Trophy semi-final in 2012-13, just before his selection for India. Bhuvneshwar was one of the lone bright spots in an otherwise wretched tour of England, taking 19 wickets at 26.63, an Indian record for most wickets against England in a Test series. He was dragged down by injury in Australia and played only one game in the 2015 World Cup.
Sidharth Monga
Name : Gautam Gambhir, Full Name : Gautam Gambhir, Country : India, Date of Birth : October 14, 1981, Delhi, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : India,Delhi,Delhi Daredevils,Essex,India Red,Indian Board President's XI,Kolkata Knight Riders,Rajasthan Cricket Association President's XI,, Profile : Feisty and firm, capricious and correct, insatiable and insecure, Gautam Gambhir was one of the most complete batsmen between 2008 and the 2011 World Cup. He opened well in all three forms of the game. He could be more aggressive than Virender Sehwag, played the kind of back-to-the-wall innings that would do Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman proud, and accumulated without taking any risks, much like Sachin Tendulkar has been doing in the last quarter of his career. Either side of that period, though, livid disappointment with his technical flaws dominating his other attributes. Still, with over 10000 runs from his 56 Tests, 147 ODIs and 37 T20Is - not to mention leading Kolkata Knight Riders to two IPL titles - Gambhir has been a grand contributor to Indian cricket.Gambhir almost did not make it, "not wanting to play anymore" when he was dropped for the 2007 World Cup. For about eight first years of his career, he was the domestic cheque that would not be honoured at international level. While the bowlers on the Ranji circuit swore by this little left-hand batsman, he had just two international centuries to show after 13 Tests and 19 ODIs when he was left out of the World Cup party.He came back with massive runs in domestic cricket, a few important technical adjustments, and with the reputation of being the best player of spin in India, outside the international side. A century in his second ODI back and a final-winning fifty in the inaugural World Twenty20 paved the way for his Test return. Test fifties against Murali and Mendis in the summer of Murali and Mendis in 2008 told him he belonged. In his next 13 Tests, he scored eight centuries: centuries to set up wins, centuries to bat opposition out, and centuries to hold on for draws, including the near 11-hour marathon in Napier. The Arjuna Award came his way, the ICC named him the Test player of 2009, but much more tellingly Sehwag called him the best Indian Test opener since Sunil Gavaskar. He scored a match-winning 97 in the 2011 World Cup final.
After the World Cup, though, began a more serious, almost terminal decline. As the Indian Test side went from sublime to ridiculous, Gambhir's failures went unpunished. In England and Australia, where India lost eight continuous Tests, Gambhir was a walking wicket, poking at deliveries outside off. From being a captaincy candidate at one time, he went to struggling to keep his place in the side.  With the arrivals of M Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan, Gambhir was sidelined until an England tour in 2014 when he was called-up as back-up opener. But his return after more than a year out of international cricket ended on a sour note when he was dropped after four innings. Gambhir was on far firmer ground in the IPL - having been a mainstay at Delhi Daredevils and then going to Knight Riders for a record US $2.4 million in the 2011 auction. Gambhir went into the 2016 IPL with 39 fifty-plus scores - the second-most by an Indian in all T20 cricket. 
Sidharth Monga
Name : KL Rahul, Full Name : Kannaur Lokesh Rahul, Country : India, Date of Birth : April 18, 1992, Bangalore, Karnataka, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : India,Bangalore Brigadiers (Urban),India Under-19s,India Under-23s,Karnataka,Karnataka State Cricket Association Colts XI,Kings XI Punjab,Royal Challengers Bangalore,South Zone,Sunrisers Hyderabad,, Profile : A tall, elegant right-hand batsman who can keep wicket in a crisis, KL Rahul is among the most highly rated opening batsmen in India's next generation. Rahul was a part of India's squad in the 2010 Under-19 World Cup and made his first-class debut later that year. Having taken a while to establish himself as a first-class cricketer, he enjoyed a breakthrough 2013-14 season, laying the foundation for Karnataka's Ranji Trophy victory with 1033 runs, which included three centuries, three nineties, and a Man-of-the-Match performance in the final.Rahul attracted plenty of attention at the subsequent IPL auction, and finally went to Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs. 1 crore (US$ 166,000 approx.). He was a regular member of their side in the 2014 season, mostly as wicketkeeper-batsman, but his contributions with the bat were steady rather than spectacular.In the long format, however, his technique and application have impressed some of Indian cricket's most respected names. These include Rahul Dravid, with whom Rahul shares not just a name but also a strong rapport, regularly seeking him out for technical and mental advice.Rahul had a middling tour of Australia with the India A team in July-August 2014, getting starts each time he batted in the unofficial Tests but only managing a top score of 52. But his appetite for runs was back to normal by the time the 2014-15 domestic season began, and twin centuries in the Duleep Trophy final earned him a place in India's Test squad on their tour of Australia.A profitable IPL in 2016 set him up to make the Indian ODI and T20 squad that toured Zimbabwe in June, where he became the first batsman from his country to score a century on debut in 50-over cricket.Karthik Krishnaswamy
Name : Ravindra Jadeja, Full Name : Ravindrasinh Anirudhsinh Jadeja, Country : India, Date of Birth : December 06, 1988, Navagam-Khed, Saurashtra, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : India,Chennai Super Kings,Gujarat Lions,India A,India B,India Blue,India Emerging Players,India Red,India Under-19s,Indian Board President's XI,Kochi Tuskers Kerala,Rajasthan Royals,Rest of India,Saurashtra,Saurashtra Cricket Association XI,West Zone,, Profile : "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win." A fellow Gujarati, Mahatma Gandhi, could well have meant to say this about Ravindra Jadeja. The best of observers ignored his left-arm spin at first, then he was ridiculed for his three triple-centuries in Ranji Trophy, the idea of Jadeja the Test player was contested when India handed him a debut in 2012-13 against conventional wisdom, but Jadeja won them all over with over after over of unerring accuracy, and sits among the elite of Indian spin bowling now. In October 2019, Jadeja became the quickest left-arm bowler to reach 200 Test wickets. In August 2013, he became the first Indian since Anil Kumble - in 1996 - to top the ICC ODI bowling rankings. In the IPL, Jadeja drew a scarcely believable bid of US$2 million in 2012. A few years ago, Shane Warne had nicknamed him "Rockstar" because of his confidence in his own ability and flamboyant ways. His most valuable skill, though, didn't have the glamour of a rockstar: fitness and strength to be able to be at the batsmen for hours, ready to pounce on any assistance from the pitch.In an era that Jadeja was bound to be overshadowed by the artistry of fellow spinner R Ashwin, he actually kept the senior spinner on his toes and often stole the spot when conditions allowed India to play just one spinner. It helped that he was a captain's dream: arguably the fastest man on the turf and the best fielder in the time that he played, he went on to become an important lower-order batsman, a far cry from the subject of memes that his batting at the start of his career was. The ridicule of his triples - more than any Indian had ever hit in first-class cricket - was actually an indictment of the quality of bowling in Indian domestic cricket at that time. Even after he had established himself, Jadeja had to fight through a serious shoulder injury and was even dropped from the squad, but he kept coming back. These hardships paled in comparison with the tough childhood in Jamnagar and the early knocks in his cricketing career, including being banned by the IPL for a year for essentially trying to negotiate his salary in the IPL.
Sidharth Monga
Name : Shikhar Dhawan, Full Name : Shikhar Dhawan, Country : India, Date of Birth : December 05, 1985, Delhi, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : India,Deccan Chargers,Delhi,Delhi Capitals,Delhi Under-16s,India A,India B,India Blue,India Emerging Players,India Green,India Masters,India Red,India Seniors,India Under-19s,Indian Board President's XI,Mumbai A,Mumbai Indians,North Zone,Rest of India,Sunrisers Hyderabad,UWI Vice Chancellor's XI,, Profile : Shikhar Dhawan stunned all observers, and Australia, when he stroked his way to the fastest Test century by a debutant. That debut, in Mohali in 2012-13, came to Dhawan in his ninth year of first-class cricket after he had been written off by almost everybody, not least because India's opening combination had been fixed to the most prolific combination in their Test history: Virender Sehwag and Gautam Gambhir.Dhawan is one in a long line of stroke-players from Delhi, which became the Indian batting capital in the 2000s. He stands upright in his stance, is a bit stiff with his hands when he pushes forward, and is partial to the cover-drive. Those who played domestic cricket with him say he is supremely confident, bordering on showmanship. He is also a flamboyant personality with his ever-changing looks and the twirled moustache.However, the attractive strokes, which were apparent even in the 2003-04 Under-19 World Cup where he was the Player of the Tournament for scoring 505 runs at 84.16 with three centuries, didn't seem to translate into huge seasons in Ranji Trophy. His average stayed steady in the mid-40s, but he didn't quite dare the selectors to overlook him. After lukewarm showing in the IPL and five ODIs, and with the Test openers going well, it seemed Dhawan would be left consigned to domestic cricket and T20 leagues.Fortune turned, though, and both Sehwag and Gambhir lost form dramatically, giving Dhawan a chance at the age of 27 with 81 caps and 5679 first-class runs to his name already. Dhawan grabbed the chance with arguably the best debut by an Indian batsman, smashing 187 off 174 balls to set up India's win in a Test that was reduced to four days. He was picked in India's squad for the Champions Trophy soon after, and carried his sizzling form into that tournament with two centuries in the side's first two matches.Dhawan's form later tailed off in England and Australia in 2014 but he hit back with 412 runs at 51.50 in India's run to the 2015 World Cup semi-finals.
Sidharth Monga
Name : Mahedi Hasan, Full Name : Mahedi Hasan, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : December 12, 1994, Khulna, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh A,Barisal Bulls,Comilla Victorians,Dhaka Platoon,Gazi Group Cricketers,Khulna,Minister Rajshahi,South Zone (Bangladesh),, Profile : By the time Mahedi Hasan earned his maiden ODI call-up in January 2021, he had already played 159 domestic matches for ten different teams in the first-class, List-A and T20 tournaments. He has now emerged as one of several contenders for the all-rounders' spots in Bangladesh's white-ball teams, having already played in three separate T20I series from 2018 to 2020. Mahedi (not to be mistaken with Mehidy Hasan Miraz who is coincidentally his first-class teammate from Khulna Division) is an accurate off-spinner, gun fielder and a batsman who has done well in both the top-order and lower down. He has six first-class centuries and his only List-A ton was in his Dhaka Premier League debut in 2016.Mahedi's performance has helped Khulna win four of the last five National Cricket League first-class competitions. His all-round skill was also crucial to South Zone winning the last two Bangladesh Cricket League first-class tournaments. He started off mainly as a bowler in the BPL, taking 10 and 13 wickets in the 2017-18 and 2018-19 tournaments respectively, before breaking out with a 253-run and 12-wicket double for Dhaka Platoon. 
Such numbers, performances and trophies in the domestic competitions have prepared Mahedi for the senior team, where he is now expected to play the role of a bit-part allrounder, expected to provide crucial runs and wickets.Mohammad Isam
Name : Rubel Hossain, Full Name : Mohammad Rubel Hossain, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : January 01, 1990, Bagerhat, Khulna, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Under-19s,Beximco Dhaka,Chattogram Challengers,Chittagong Division,Chittagong Kings,Khulna Division,South Zone (Bangladesh),, Profile : A right-arm fast bowler with a sling action, Rubel Hossain made an immediate impact in his ODI debut, troubling the batsmen with his bouncers and ending with match-winning figures of 4 for 33 against Sri Lanka. He began by playing taped tennis ball cricket in his hometown Bagerhat, but his talents were discovered during a pacer hunt programme where he topped the speed gun. He made his cricketing debut in 2007, against Khulna Division, for whom his hero Mashrafe Mortaza plays. That didn't stop him from bouncing Mortaza and picking up his wicket during their first encounter at a local competition. When Hossain entered the domestic scene, there were instances of batsmen retiring hurt because of his stock delivery. His love for speed also explains his fascination for bikes. Hossain was included in Bangladesh's Under-19 squad for the World Cup in 2008 and earned a call-up to the Bangladesh one-day squad for the home series against Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe the following year. He also made it to the Test squad for West IndiesCricinfo staff June 2009
Name : Taskin Ahmed, Full Name : Taskin Ahmed, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : April 03, 1995, Dhaka, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Cricket Board XI,Bangladesh Under-19s,Chittagong Kings,Dhaka Metropolis,Fortune Barishal,Rangpur Rangers,, Profile : Even before he was anywhere near making his international debut, Taskin Ahmed became an internet sensation. A video of his spell against England Under-19s in 2012 found its way to Youtube, and the sight of a Bangladeshi fast bowler ripping it past batsman and hitting the wicketkeeper's gloves quite hard and high made people curious.Taskin is a tall fast bowler, with a body structure slightly akin to Mashrafe Mortaza. He bowls with a high-arm action, after coming in from a smooth run-up. He is a product of Dhaka's cricket academy scene, having learned his craft at the Abahani ground nets, living nearby in Mohammadpur.He burst into the domestic scene with a four-wicket haul in the 2013 BPL, but he suffered a knee injury soon after which kept him sidelined for nearly a year. He went through rehabilitation work during the time, and as he slowly recovered, Taskin bowled in the Bangladesh nets regularly.The coaching staff was impressed by his ability, and kept him in the radar for a very long time, until they found the right time to blood him. Taskin made his T20 debut for Bangladesh in the World T20, and has been retained in the ODI squad for the India series in June 2014.Mohammad Isam
Name : Shakib Al Hasan, Full Name : Shakib Al Hasan, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : March 24, 1987, Magura, Jessore, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Bangladesh,Adelaide Strikers,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Cricket Board XI,Barbados Tridents,Brampton Wolves,Dhaka Gladiators,Gemcon Khulna,Jamaica Tallawahs,Karachi Kings,Khulna Division,Kolkata Knight Riders,Peshawar Zalmi,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Worcestershire,, Profile : When the annals of Bangladesh cricket are sifted by future generations, Shakib Al Hasan will emerge and re-emerge as the greatest cricketer of its first two decades. As a bowler, Shakib is accurate, consistent and canny; aggression and a wide range of strokes are the keys to his batting. Even more importantly, he has self-belief and an excellent temperament, unflustered by the big occasion and ready to do battle against the top teams.The best of his ability and temperament were on display in his first Test as captain, against a weakened West Indies side in Grenada, when Shakib took eight wickets and scored an unbeaten 96 in a tense but successful fourth-innings chase of 215, leading Bangladesh to their first overseas series victory. In only his fourth Test as captain, Shakib scored 87 and 100 - his maiden Test century - in a losing cause against New Zealand in Hamilton, performances that offered further proof of his skill and ability to handle pressure. Against the same opponents in 2008, Shakib took 7 for 36 in Chittagong, only the second instance of a Bangladesh bowler taking seven or more wickets in a Test innings.In ODIs, Shakib's contributions have been equally vital with bat and ball and he became the first from Bangladesh to achieve the double of 2000 runs and 100 wickets. He also became the first batsman from Bangladesh to score five hundreds, despite mostly batting at No. 5.Being clearly the best player in the team, it wasn't surprising when Shakib was handed the captaincy in 2009 after Mashrafe Mortaza repeatedly got injured during his first tenure. His ability to perform consistently and to stay calm under pressure worked well for Bangladesh, as they won 22 out of 47 games under him, and even beat England in the 2011 World Cup. However, the World Cup campaign was followed by a disappointing tour of Zimbabwe, where Bangladesh lost a one-off Test and the ODI series, which led to Shakib's removal as captain.His form hardly waned, however, as he quickly bounced back to help Bangladesh bowl out West Indies for 61 in an ODI; a hundred and five-for in the same Test - something he has done twice - followed later in the year. He remained consistent for Bangladesh and his IPL team, Kolkata Knight Riders, but in 2014 Shakib lapsed into off-field shenanigans that saw him fined for lewdly gesticulating at the camera from the dressing-room during an ODI against Sri Lanka, then suspended for six months by the BCB for misbehaving with coach Chandika Hathurusingha and threatening to quit Bangladesh duty. The ban was lifted early and Shakib made the vice-captain in the ODI and T20 formats under Mashrafe. His match-winning ability was undimmed and he played key roles in Bangladesh wins during their stellar 2015. In the 2019 World Cup, Shakib hit his peak with the bat: playing the No. 3 role, he went past fifty in seven out of eight innings, with a lowest score of 41. That streak included two centuries, including an unbeaten 124 off 99 balls as Bangladesh chased down West Indies' 321 inside 42 overs - a record ODI chase for the country. Shakib finished the tournament third on the batting charts with 606 runs at 86.57, and also took a five-wicket haul against Afghanistan. The highs from that World Cup would dissolve shortly after. Shakib was suspended from all cricket for two years, with one year suspended, after accepting three charges of breaching the ICC's anti-corruption code. He was found guilty of not reporting approaches from bookies during series with Bangladesh as well as at the IPL during his time with the Sunrisers Hyderabad. The suspension would have effectively ended his chances of participating in the T20 World Cup in 2020, but the Covid-19 pandemic meant the tournament was postponed, and that a large part of Shakib's suspension went by without his missing too much cricket with the national team. Shakib was back in the set up soon after, and said he regretted and repented his actions, and that the suspension and the pandemic had made him rethink life.In 2021, he had another run-in with the authorities. This time, during the Dhaka Premier League. Playing for Mohammedan Sporting Club against Abahani Limited, Shakib was caught on video first kicking the stumps and remonstrating with the umpire after his lbw appeal had been turned down, and later ripping them out in anger after the umpire called for the covers when it had begun to rain. He was subsequently banned for three matches and fined Taka 5 lakh (USD 5800 approx).Mohammad Isam & ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Mustafizur Rahman, Full Name : Mustafizur Rahman, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : September 06, 1995, Satkhira, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast medium, Teams : Bangladesh,Abahani Limited,Bangladesh Under-19s,Gazi Group Chattogram,Khulna Division,Lahore Qalandars,Mumbai Indians,Rajasthan Royals,Rangpur Rangers,South Zone (Bangladesh),Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sussex,, Profile : Mustafizur Rahman is a left-arm pace bowler who came to Dhaka to try out for a fast-bowling camp in 2012, after he had impressed in an Under-17 tournament in Satkhira, some 300km from Dhaka. He got admitted to the BCB's pace foundation and soon caught the coaches' attention to make the Bangladesh Under-19 side for the 2014 World Cup. He made his first-class debut for Khulna in the 2013-14 season and, after taking eight wickets in the U-19 World Cup in the UAE, he was surprisingly picked for Bangladesh A's tour of West Indies. Returning from that short trip, he was viewed as a better bowler and slowly picked up more variations. He initially lacked pace but built it up through the 2014-15 first-class season, when he took 26 wickets at an average of 19.08. This was when Mustafizur started to develop the left-armer's offcutter, which was delivered as a spinner does but with the added ability of making it carry to the wicketkeeper standing back. The story of Anamul Haque's dare that got him to bowl the delivery will go into Bangladeshi cricket folklore, as will the early support he received from Mashrafe Mortaza, who spotted him randomly in the Mirpur nets.Soon enough, the Bangladesh selectors picked Mustafizur for the one-off T20I against Pakistan and then, midway through 2015, for the ODI series against India when he became only the second bowler after Brian Vitori to take five-wicket hauls in his first two ODIs, paving the way for Bangladesh's first-ever ODI series win over India.He was excellent in bilateral series against South Africa - which included a Test debut - and Zimbabwe, while also doing well in his first BPL campaign. Mustafizur's first foray on to the world stage was through the IPL auction, when he was picked Sunrisers Hyderabad in early 2016, followed by confirmation of a contract with Sussex for English domestic limited-overs cricket. He ensured none of his new paymasters doubted their call as he emerged as one of the best bowlers in the World T20, signing off with a five-wicket haul against New Zealand, bamboozling them with his variation of cutters. Mohammad Isam
Name : Mosaddek Hossain, Full Name : Mosaddek Hossain Saikat, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : December 10, 1995, Mymensingh, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Bangladesh,Abahani Limited,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Under-17s,Bangladesh Under-19s,Dhaka Division,East Zone (Bangladesh),Gazi Group Chattogram,Sylhet Thunder,, Profile : Mosaddek Hossain, who comes from a family of cricketers, snuck up on Bangladesh cricket's consciousness during the 2013 Dhaka Premier Division Cricket League, helping Abahani Limited stay afloat in a disastrous campaign. He struck a century and three fifties, before having to head to the Bangladesh Under-19 training camp ahead of the 2014 World Cup in the UAE. The opportunity to get out of age-group cricket quite early proved to be an important milestone in his development. His first-class debut in the 2013-14 season wasn't memorable: he got a pair against Khulna in Cox's Bazar. But in the following season, he struck 250 and 282, his first two hundred-plus scores in first-class cricket. He added another double-hundred in 2015. A Twenty20 International debut followed in January 2016, but it was a forgettable one against Zimbabwe. By then it was clear that he wouldn't be in coach Chandika Hathurusingha's 2016 World T20 plans.Mosaddek however kept making the runs in domestic cricket, and in the 2016 Dhaka Premier League he was winning matches for eventual champions Abahani. At barely 20, Mosaddek was hailed by Abahani captain Tamim Iqbal as one with a "45-year-old brain". He remained on the fringes of the national team, and made his Test debut in Colombo in March 2017 in what was Bangladesh's 100th Test.  Mohammad Isam
Name : Mushfiqur Rahim, Full Name : Mohammad Mushfiqur Rahim, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : May 09, 1987, Bogra, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh Under-19s,Beximco Dhaka,Karachi Kings,Khulna Tigers,North Zone (Bangladesh),Rajshahi Division,Rajshahi Kings,Sylhet Division,Sylhet Royals,, Profile : A wild-card inclusion for Bangladesh's maiden tour of England in 2005, Mushfiqur Rahim was just 16 when he was selected for that daunting trip - two Tests in May, followed by six ODIs against England and Australia - even though he hadn't been named in the preliminary squad of 20. Mushfiqur was principally selected as an understudy to the ever-present wicketkeeper, Khaled Mashud, but his inclusion was further evidence of Bangladesh's determination to build for a better future. He had done well on an A-team tour of Zimbabwe earlier in 2005, scoring a century in the first Test at Bulawayo, and also enjoyed some success in England the previous year with the Under-19s, making 88 in the second Test at Taunton. He showed more evidence of grit with the full team, with a maiden first-class half-century to soften the pain of defeat against Sussex, followed by a career-best 115 against Northamptonshire. That earned him a call-up - as a batsman - to become the youngest player to appear in a Test match at Lord's. He was one of only three players to reach double figures in a disappointing first innings, but a twisted ankle kept him out of the second Test. After captaining Bangladesh's Under-19s to fifth place in the Youth World Cup in February 2006, he also featured in Bogra's inaugural Test, against Sri Lanka the following month, but could make little of the spin of Murali and Malinga Bandara. He remained on the sidelines for the next few months but was recalled for the final two ODIs against Zimbabwe at home in December.  He scored his maiden half-century at Harare in February 2007 and was picked as the first-choice wicketkeeper, ahead of Khaled Mashud, for the World Cup in the West Indies.He shows sound technique in his glovework and is Bangladesh's first-choice wicketkeeper after Dhiman Ghosh's departure to the ICL. A stodgy lower-order batsman, Mushfiqur has grown into one of the better players of spin in the line-up. After a slow start to his Test career, he found form in the 2008-09 season with stubborn knocks under pressure. He has under-performed as a batsman in ODIs, but his form picked up in 2009 and he narrowly missed out on a maiden ODI hundred on the tour to Zimbabwe. In January 2010 he cracked his maiden Test century, a notable achievement as it came against a strong Indian Test side and was the fastest by a Bangladesh player. And after Bangladesh's unexpected defeat in Zimbabwe in 2011, Mushfiqur was also elevated to leadership role, taking over as captain from Shakib Al Hasan. Andrew Miller and ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Mominul Haque, Full Name : Mominul Haque, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : September 29, 1991, Cox's Bazar, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Cricket Board Academy,Bangladesh Under-19s,Chittagong Division,Dhaka Division,Dhaka Platoon,East Zone (Bangladesh),Gazi Group Chattogram,Rajshahi Kings,Sylhet Royals,Sylhet Super Stars,, Profile : Mominul Haque is one of very few cricketers from the coastal town of Cox's Bazar, which is the country's most popular tourist destination. The laidback life in front of the world's longest sandy beach probably was never going to be Mominul's calling as he was sent to the BKSP, the country's biggest sports institute, as a cricket student. Soon he emerged as dependable left-hand batsman in age-group cricket, making his first-class debut in the 2008-09 season for Dhaka Division. He was picked in the Under-19 World Cup squad in 2010 and the following year, the National Cricket Academy called him as their 2011 graduate. He continued to progress in domestic cricket as a middle-order batsman, and was picked in the Bangladesh A team's tour to the West Indies the same year where he scored 150 in the opening match of the tour.There were calls for his selection in the Bangladesh team during the Test series against Pakistan but it would have been too early. He finally earned his first call-up on the back of two first-class hundreds when the selectors took him as a replacement for the injured Shakib Al Hasan for the first two ODIs against West Indies in November 2012.Mohammad Isam
Name : Mohammad Mithun, Full Name : Mohammad Mithun, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : March 02, 1991, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Cricket Board Academy,Bangladesh Under-19s,Bangladesh Under-23s,Gazi Group Chattogram,Kalabagan Krira Chakra,Khulna Division,Khulna Royal Bengals,South Zone (Bangladesh),Sylhet Division,Sylhet Thunder,, Profile : Mohammad Mithun had been a much-talked-about prodigy even before he had passed out of BKSP, the country's biggest sports institute. He started off as a wicketkeeper in age-group cricket, and has continued in the role, although his batting has always been his stronger suit. He is a batsman who prefers to play the long innings, though he has also been known to take the aerial route as he has often batted in the top-order in limited-overs cricket.Mithun made his first-class debut in 2006 for Khulna Division, although he remained a regular in the Bangladesh under-19 side. He played in the 2008 U-19 World Cup in Malaysia, after which he took three years to get into the next level, playing for Bangladesh A in their 2011 tour to the West Indies. He had averaged 50.81 in first-class cricket during that season, including three centuries. His next good season was 2013-14, which was also his most productive, as he scored 706 runs in nine matches.It prompted a sudden call-up to the Bangladesh T20 side when regular wicketkeeper and captain Mushfiqur Rahim suffered a finger injury in early 2014. He was then called up to the ODI squad for the three-match series against India in June.Mohammad Isam
Name : Mahmudullah, Full Name : Mohammad Mahmudullah, Country : Bangladesh, Date of Birth : February 04, 1986, Mymensingh, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Bangladesh,Bangladesh A,Bangladesh Under-19s,Barisal Bulls,Central Zone (Bangladesh),Chattogram Challengers,Chittagong Kings,Dhaka Division,Gemcon Khulna,Jamaica Tallawahs,Khulna Titans,Quetta Gladiators,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,, Profile : An allrounder who bowls tidy offspin and bats in the middle order, Mahmudullah has spent the last three years figuring out how fickle form can be. In late 2012, he was the star who derailed West Indies to their first ODI series defeat in Bangladesh, and was a step away from captaincy. A poor season later, his place was continually questioned and he was even dropped for the 2014 Asia Cup. After another five months, Mahmudullah finally found form and became an automatic choice.Born in Mymensingh, a district located 115km to the north of Dhaka, Mahmudullah learned his game in his hometown before coming to the capital to take part in the ACC U15 tournament in 2000. He played in the 2004 U19 World Cup at home, and the following year made his first-class debut for Bangladesh A. He also spent part of that year in the MCC Young Cricketers and became a regular club and first-class cricketer back home in the 2005-06 season.He made his ODI debut against Sri Lanka in 2007 and was labeled a limited-overs specialist for some time and he delivered in short bursts, hardly setting the world on fire. But his eight-wicket haul on Test debut (including a five-for in the second innings) against West Indies in 2009 spurred him on as he suddenly averaged 193 with the bat in the ODI tri-series against India and Sri Lanka later that year.It got better as he slammed his one and only international hundred, in a one-off Test against New Zealand in Hamilton. The crowd held their breath as he drove the fast bowlers imperiously through the covers, fleetingly drawing comparisons with India's VVS Laxman. 
His most telling contribution so far has been the 159 runs he made against West Indies in the home ODI series in 2012. He was holding the innings together as well as playing the match-winning role. The next two years were a struggle, but after a reasonable performance against Zimbabwe in the 2014 winter, he confirmed his place in the 2015 World Cup squad.Mohammad Isam
Name : Mark Wood, Full Name : Mark Andrew Wood, Country : England, Date of Birth : January 11, 1990, Ashington, Northumberland, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast, Teams : England,Chennai Super Kings,Durham,Durham 2nd XI,Durham Academy,England Lions,London Spirit (Men),Northumberland,Northumberland Under-13s,Northumberland Under-15s,Northumberland Under-17s,, Profile : It looked, for a while, as if Mark Wood would be another of those fast bowlers who promised more than they delivered.An apparently relentless succession of injuries - particularly injuries to his ankle - threatened to either end his career or turn him into another fast medium seamer who compromised his pace for a longer career in the game.But Wood was not to be denied. Abandoning a short run-up that was a characteristic of his career up until the latter part of 2018, Wood instead reasoned a longer approach to the crease would put less pressure on his body and allow him to hit the speeds his early career had promised.The results were dramatic. Returning to the England team for the final Test of the Caribbean tour in early 2019, Wood claimed a maiden five-wicket haul and generated speeds of around 95 mph in a remarkably hostile demonstration of fast bowling. Scyld Berry, the veteran Telegraph correspondent and a man believed to have seen more England Tests than anyone else, rated it the quickest spell he had ever seen by an England bowler.There was more to come. Recalled to the ODI side just before the World Cup, he went on to play a huge role in the team's eventual success. With Jofra Archer he traded records for the quickest deliveries of the tournament - both exceeded 95 mph - and, by offering pace and wicket-taking potential in the middle-overs, ensured his captain always had a potent weapon in the field. While Archer finished with more wickets (21 to Wood's 18), Wood finished with the better strike-rate. Underlining his commitment to the cause, Wood sustained a serious sides strain during the final but, with the match in the balance, continued to bowl at high pace. He was subsequently ruled out of the Ashes series that followed.Wood never did fit the prototype of a modern England fast bowler. He is skinny, barely 6ft tall and, originally at least, bowled from a sprinter's run-up but after his speed caught the eye with Durham and the Lions, he was given a Test debut at the start of the 2015 summer. He made an instant impression against New Zealand, bowling above 90mph and celebrating wickets with abandon, kept his place for the visit of Australia and capped things off by taking the wicket that sealed England's Ashes victory at Trent Bridge. In no time at all, the imaginary horse that had ridden around the county grounds of England to stave off boredom had become a recognisable part of his England celebration. Here was a fast bowler of unsuppressed vitality.Like Stephen Harmison, Wood hails from Ashington in Northumberland and played for the same club. The former England quick also encouraged him to go to Australia at 18 to improve his game - not bad advice from a man who suffered bouts of homesickness away from the Northumberland coast. Where Harmison stands 6ft 4in tall, Wood is a level 6ft and delivers a whippier, skiddier ball. In his first five first-class appearances, he took 19 wickets at 21.63, including a match-winning 5 for 78 against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge in August 2012.Paul Collingwood's appetite for promoting and encouraging Durham's younger crop of players worked in his favour in 2013. He had a breakthrough summer, claiming 27 first-class wickets at 24.07 to help Durham to the Championship title and confirm his status as the latest in an impressive collection of homegrown pace bowlers. That strong showing was enough to win recognition on the England Lions tour to Sri Lanka, though it lasted only one match before he returned home with a side injury. His 2014 season was further disrupted by the first appearance of a long-running ankle problem but he was again involved with the Lions at the start of 2015 before being called up to the Test squad for the Caribbean.He did not get a run against West Indies but was capped in the washed-out ODI against Ireland, picking up his first England wicket, and then replaced Chris Jordan in the Test side for a Lord's debut. Wood thought he had taken the wicket of Martin Guptill in his third over, only for replays to show he had overstepped, but he eventually finished with 4 for 140 as England won a thriller. Further limited-overs involvement followed but England were already aware Wood's workload would need careful managing - he played the first two Ashes Tests but missed out at Edgbaston. James Anderson's side strain allowed him to return at Trent Bridge and he took one of the two wickets not claimed by Stuart Broad as Australia were dismissed for 60. Two days later, the imaginary horse got an outing after Wood took the wicket that secured the return of the urn.He made a blistering comeback from injury in the second half of 2016, delivering some of the most potent fast-bowling spells of the season as he helped Durham's to the final of the NatWest T20 Blast and also featured in England's 4-1 victory over Pakistan in their one-day international series. But further ankle issues ruled him out of a tour to Bangladesh and he missed India, too, after it was discovered that he bowled at the tail end of the English domestic season when his ankle was fractured. It all meant that he faced a third ankle operation within a year and, however optimistic the prognosis, cast doubts upon the resilience of a player who had won a reputation as England's fastest bowler. His comeback in 2017 was then afflicted by heel problems which limited him to five early-season Championship matches, somewhat down on pace, and saw him lose his England central contract at the end of the season.Lost England contract or not, England could not resist his potential. He sandwiched a disastrous debut in the IPL (conceding 49 in four overs for Chennai Super Kinds and never seen again) in between Tests in Christchurch and against Pakistan at Lord's, where his average pace  of 87mph restated his threat, but his ODI displays were unpredictable and he admitted in Sri Lanka that he was running out of opportunities to claim his place for the 2019 World Cup.Wood played minor counties cricket for Northumberland from 2008 to 2010 before making his first-class debut for Durham against Durham MCCU in April 2011. He made his List A debut against Northamptonshire in Clydesdale Bank 40 the following month and his first County Championship appearance against Nottinghamshire in August of the same year.

ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : James Vince, Full Name : James Michael Vince, Country : England, Date of Birth : March 14, 1991, Cuckfield, Sussex, Playing Role : Batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : England,Auckland,England Lions,England Performance Programme,England Under-19s,Hampshire,Hampshire 2nd XI,Karachi Kings,Maratha Arabians,Multan Sultans,Northamptonshire,Paarl Rocks,Southern Brave (Men),Sydney Sixers,Sydney Thunder,Team James Vince,Wiltshire,, Profile : With a wide range of strokes and an ability to time the ball shared by few, it was understandable that England's selectors kept providing opportunities to James Vince.Despite a supporting role in the World Cup triumph - he won a late call-up as first reserve batsmen when the team management lost patience with Alex Hales and went on to play three matches in the tournament - there was still a sense that, after more than 30 international appearances and despite his undoubted elegance, Vince has promised rather more than has delivered in several opportunities in the England side. Vince was first given the summer of 2016 to prove that he had the ability to succeed at England level. Sadly, appearances - initially at least - proved misleading. In seven Tests, against Sri Lanka and Pakistan, he averaged 19.27 without a half-century and was repeatedly fallible on the drive outside off stump. Only one Championship hundred for Hampshire added to his mournful air. Vince did manage an ODI half-century against Sri Lanka and showed more promise in T20Is, but those who had lobbied long and hard for his inclusion were particularly disappointed with the outcome of his first international summer as his undoubted style was not matched by substance. Even then they insisted that statistics showed that his ill luck was that he tended to play and edge rather than play and miss.But Vince was not to be denied so easily - or at least Vince's advocates weren't. He only averaged 33 in the Championship in 2017, but still found himself on the plane to Australia after England's selectors observed the failure of Tom Westley, and others, to make the No 3 position their own and turned to Vince once again. Simmering talent or habitual maker of soft 20s and 30s? It seemed that England were about to find out.He began with an impressive 83 in Brisbane before he was run out, but only passed 50 once in his next eight innings. Despite 76 in Christchurch in a drawn Test in New Zealand, he was axed again in the English summer even though England were struggling for top-order options. England's new national selector, Ed Smith, seemed to want proof of desire at Hampshire. He responded with 201 from 437 balls against Somerset at Taunton but was overlooked all the same, he topped Hampshire's averages, and his 50-over cricket included a sublime 171 against Yorkshire but his defiance waned and he ended the season feebly with no score above 30 in his last nine innings.A Wiltshire boy who found his way into the Hampshire set up, he was first tipped as a star of the future when the former England coach Duncan Fletcher, who worked with Vince at the Hampshire academy, said he was reminiscent of Michael Vaughan. Like Vaughan, an adherence to sound technique does little to temper his attacking instincts. To attract England's interest more regularly, though, he needed to answer a perception that he suffers a greater proportion of soft dismissals than a player of his ability should.Vince has enjoyed one-day success with Hampshire, his red ball cricket has slowly advanced and he has been a regular in the England Lions squad, impressing with his methodical approach.After he broke into the Hampshire side in 2009 he averaged over 50 in his first round of limited-overs matches before impressing again for England at the Under-19 World Cup. He became a First XI regular in 2010, and in August of that year confirmed his pedigree with an innings of 180 against a Yorkshire attack that included Ajmal Shahzad, Tim Bresnan and Adil Rashid at Scarborough. In that innings he added 278 with Jimmy Adams, breaking Hampshire's fourth-wicket record which had stood since 1970. Vince went past 1000 career runs for Hampshire while still a teenager - the second youngest player in the county's history behind Phil Mead to do so. In 2012 he averaged 55.50 as Hampshire won the Clydesdale Bank 40, the second part of a one-day double. 2013 saw great improvement in the County Championship and he passed 1000 first-class runs in a season for the first time. That winter he toured Sri Lanka with England Lions and during the following close season in 2014-15, was picked for the Lions trip to South Africa.Vince enjoyed a stand-out season in 2014 after being named Hampshire vice-captain. He made a mighty 1525 runs - the highest tally in the country - at 61.00 as Hampshire won Division Two of the County Championship and also made a superb 93 from just 51 balls to steer his side to victory in a T20 quarter-final at Notts. His career progressed substantially in 2015 when he made his England one-day debut against Ireland in May and was named as captain of the Lions T20 squad to face Pakistan A in Dubai in December. He also assumed the Hampshire captaincy in all formats at only 24, hailed by his chairman Rod Bransgrove as "a genuinely gifted and creative captain with a maturity beyond his years."Ahead of the 2015 season it was announced that Vince would become captain for both limited-overs formats, assuming the 50-over captaincy from Jimmy Adams. By the end of the summer, he had replaced Adams in all three formats only for his career to falter when England came calling.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : David Willey, Full Name : David Jonathan Willey, Country : England, Date of Birth : February 28, 1990, Northampton, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast medium, Teams : Auckland,Bangla Tigers,Bedfordshire,Chennai Super Kings,England Lions,England Under-19s,Northamptonshire,Northamptonshire 2nd XI,Northern Superchargers (Men),Pakhtoons,Perth Scorchers,Team Moeen,Team Morgan,Yorkshire,Yorkshire 2nd XI,, Profile : A regular member of England's ODI squads through the four-year cycle building up to the 2019 World Cup, David Willey was squeezed out on the eve of the tournament by the newly qualified Jofra Archer. Willey later described his dropping as "the worst thing that can happen" to a player but vowed to fight for continued recognition, winning Man of the Series on his return to the side 12 months later, during the summer of Covid-enforced bio-bubbles.World Cup disappointment aside, Willey could have been forgiven for wondering at his treatment. Having claimed a career-best 4 for 7 in a T20I in St Kitts in March, Willey was left out of the tour to New Zealand the following winter. He did not pull on an England shirt for more than a year, and even after impressing in three ODIs against Ireland - which included a maiden five-wicket haul - he was then overlooked for white-ball commitments against Pakistan and Australia.The son of former England allrounder turned umpire Peter Willey, David had long been recognised as feisty character on the county circuit before England came calling. Less than a year after his debut, he was a key part of the England side denied by Carlos Brathwaite's late blitzkrieg at the World T20 final in Kolkata - with 21 off 14 balls and 3 for 20 from his four overs, Willey would have been a contender for Man of the Match. With back-to-back T20 World Cups scheduled for 2021 and 2022, there was still the possibility of a reprise.If there had been an English prototype for the perfect Twenty20 cricketer, it probably would have looked something like Willey. Naturally competitive, willing to innovate, capable of changing a game with bat or ball, stunning run-out or implausible catch, he had much in his favour. That approach, whether as a left-arm quick committed to attack or a clean-hitting left-handed batsman, first won him an international cap against Ireland in 2015 as part of an England side determined to adopt a more attacking philosophy after their flop in the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand.Willey struck a half-century on debut for Northamptonshire at the start of the 2009 season. Initially classed as obdurate, like his father, but with a more orthodox technique, he spent a few seasons of reconnaissance before his combative style began to attract attention. There had been few grittier, taciturn cricketers than Peter Willey and it was clear that that will to win had been passed down, albeit in a more freewheeling and loquacious style.His bowling really developed during the 2012 season when claimed 43 first-class wickets with his brisk swing and seam. The following summer he was central to Northamptonshire's Friends Life t20 success with a memorable all-round performance in the final: a 19-ball half-century (the fastest of the season), a direct-hit run-out from the deep and a hat-trick to finish off the match as part of a four-wicket haul, not forgetting a slanging match with Jade Dernbach which he partly credited for his inspirational display. It was enough for his captain, Alex Wakely, to label him "the Northants Botham".A back stress fracture followed by shoulder surgery prevented him from progressing beyond the Lions in time for the 2015 World Cup, but he was eventually picked for an experimental England side at Malahide, in what turned out to be Peter Moores' last game as head coach. Further ODI and T20I opportunities followed.In the 2015 Blast, he struck a matchwinning century against Sussex in the quarter-final at Hove, including 34 off an over from the former England slow left-armer Mike Yardy as he fell only a metre short of hitting six sixes in an over. He destroyed Birmingham's top order in the semi-final before Lancashire overcame Northants in the final.At the end of the season, he joined Yorkshire, believing that he could advance his long-form game as well as galvanising their limited-overs cricket. In 2016 he helped them to Finals Day, and the following summer struck a career-best 118 from 55 balls; but 13 Championship appearances over five years told of his impact in red-ball cricket. Nevertheless, his T20 skills earned interest from overseas - winning a Big Bash title with Perth Scorchers, and an IPL deal at Chennai Super Kings - and it was in that format that he took on the Yorkshire captaincy in 2020.His first year in the role did not end as planned. After harshly being overlooked by England at the end of the summer despite his exploits against Ireland, Willey turned down an offer from Delhi Capitals in order to lead Yorkshire through the Blast. Two games later, he contracted the coronavirus, ruling him and three team-mates out for the rest of the season and consigning them to a group-stage exit.

ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : John Simpson, Full Name : John Andrew Simpson, Country : England, Date of Birth : July 13, 1988, Bury, Lancashire, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : England,England Under-19s,Lancashire,Lancashire 2nd XI,Marylebone Cricket Club,Marylebone Cricket Club Young Cricketers,Middlesex,Middlesex 2nd XI,Northern Superchargers (Men),, Profile : John Simpson, a neat and reliable wicketkeeper capable of useful contributions with the bat, has been Middlesex's first-choice wicketkeeper for nearly a decade since fighting off competition from Ben Scott and David Nash. He has had his admirers among Middlesex supporters who have proposed him for England Test honours, but a first-class average hovering in the early 30s has never really advanced his claims. All that was forgotten, though, on a memorable final afternoon at Taunton when his 79 not out from 80 balls, rounded off with two legside sixes, completed a thrilling Middlesex run chase at Taunton that proved to be an inspirational factor in a season that brought their first Championship title for 23 years. A hundred against Hampshire in May that year, the fifth first-class hundred of his career, was another strikingly fluent display.Simpson played first-team Lancashire League cricket for Haslingden when only ten years old and went on to represent Lancashire in every age group from Under-11 upwards. Yet, despite appearing for Lancashire seconds and earning his first England Under-19s call-up for the 2005 tour of Bangladesh, it took a move to Middlesex to realise his ambition of becoming a professional cricketer. Initially given a short contract at Lord's, the left-handed batsman-keeper really came into his own during the 2011 season when 869 runs at 43.45 and 65 victims behind the stumps played a big part in the county's promotion campaign. Division One runs initially proved harder to come by but Simpson's keeping almost always impressed and in 2014 he had the satisfaction of hitting two Championship hundreds to cement his place in the side.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Ben Stokes, Full Name : Benjamin Andrew Stokes, Country : England, Date of Birth : June 04, 1991, Christchurch, Canterbury, New Zealand, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : England,Canterbury,Durham,Durham 2nd XI,England Development Programme Under-19s,England Lions,England Performance Programme,England Under-19s,Melbourne Renegades,Northern Superchargers (Men),Rajasthan Royals,Rising Pune Supergiant,, Profile : The great Irish sports writer Con Houlihan used to say that every team should have a redhead. And it's true that Ben Stokes' combative nature, allied to his powerful frame and outrageous talent, lifted England to another level. Never was that more true than when he secured his place in English cricket history with an indefatigable batting display in the 2019 World Cup final. In making an unbeaten 84 he exhausted every ounce of strength, talent and willpower and then when he imagined it might be all over he came out to bat once more to help win a Super Over by the narrowest of margins.For Stokes, this was a wonderful moment of redemption because it had been his misfortune until then to be remembered for two episodes he would rather forget. The first came in the 2016 Twenty20 World Cup final in Kolkata. Asked to defend 19 in the last over against West Indies, his attempted yorkers missed the mark by inches resulting in Carlos Brathwaite heaving him for four successive sixes into a sweltering night sky.The second, and altogether more serious, incident occurred in September 2017. Celebrating an ODI victory in Bristol, Stokes became embroiled in a fight outside a club in the early hours of the morning that resulted in his arrest. A trial at Bristol Crown Court subsequently saw him cleared of the charge of affray but by then the reputational damage had been done. He had already missed the 2017-18 Ashes tour - a toothless England were beaten 4-0 with Stokes not considered for selection - and been stripped of the team's vice-captaincy. It was testament to his immense character that he ensured he would be remembered for more positive reasons. Within months of his comeback, Stokes had played a key role in England's 3-0 Test win in Sri Lanka, their first whitewash series victory in Asia. Trevor Bayliss praised Stokes' attitude as "exemplary", saying he had "learned his lesson". The World Cup final underlined his immense character. Capable of turning games with his batting, his bowling and in the field, he had attracted comparisons with Ian Botham. Expectations were huge from the outset. He had satisfied them.Stokes, from the moment he made his Durham debut, felt very much a product of the northeast of England. He was actually born in Christchurch, New Zealand and came from a rich sporting pedigree with his father, Ged, playing international Rugby League for that country.His prodigious talent was clear from an early age. A true allrounder, Stokes debuted for Durham at 17 and dismissed Mark Ramprakash with his third legal delivery in senior cricket. He enjoyed a productive time at the 2009 Under-19 World Cup, scoring a century against India, before registering a maiden fifty on his first-class debut for Durham. But it was in 2011 that he really began to blossom. In April he took 6 for 68 and scored a brilliant hundred that included five sixes in an over, and a month later registered his maiden limited-overs ton. A broken finger hindered his bowling, but he played for England Lions and made his ODI debut against Ireland in Dublin, going on to play four times against India, albeit with limited impact.A first brush with the management was to follow, after being called up to the England Lions squad for the tour of Australia in early 2013. Stokes ended up being sent home with three matches remaining, along with Kent's Matt Coles, after two breaches of discipline. It was a watershed moment, and he was rapidly rehabilitated back at Durham, playing a key role in their Championship-winning season and being recalled to England's limited-overs teams. He took a maiden ODI five-for and won selection for the 2013-14 Ashes tour, a return to Australia that would command attention for the right reasons.Stokes' performances were a rare bright spot on a disastrous trip. When the agony was all over, only Stokes returned to England as a star on the rise. Brought into the XI at Adelaide, after Jonathan Trott's untimely departure, his pugnacious nature came to the fore during a maiden Test hundred in Perth, a doughty response out of keeping with England's general demeanour throughout the tour.But with fire came combustibility. Stokes missed the 2014 World Twenty20 in Bangladesh after reacting to a dismissal in Barbados by punching a dressing room locker and sustaining a broken wrist. During a difficult year, he was dropped from the Test team after making three ducks in a row against India, and then lost his one-day place on the tour of Sri Lanka - ultimately missing out on selection for the 2015 World Cup.Stokes, like England after a dismal tournament, needed rejuvenating. It began with the Lord's Test against New Zealand, when Stokes scored 92 and 101 after being promoted to bat at No. 6. A successful Ashes followed and he was also a central figure in the new-look ODI side that began to put the World Cup behind them under the guidance of Bayliss and Paul Farbrace. A few months later he produced a barnstorming 258 from 198 balls against South Africa in Cape Town - the fastest England double-hundred in history and the second fastest of all time - during a stand of 399 with Jonny Bairstow.Following his Kolkata nightmare, he nevertheless grew in stature within the side and was promoted to the vice-captaincy (at least until the Bristol episode). He scored his maiden ODI hundred in Dhaka in late 2016 and added four more across international formats the following year, while also taking Test-best figures of 6 for 22 against West Indies at Lord's, becoming a key cog for England despite a chequered injury record.An IPL millionaire twice over - he was bought for 1.7m by Rising Pune Supergiant in 2017, winning tournament MVP, and then picked up for 1.4m the following season by Rajasthan Royals - Stokes was one of the most talked-about players in the world. But there was a sense the best was yet to come. Going into 2019, a year containing an Ashes series and a World Cup, he looked to be a player at the peak of his powers who had finally understood the level of sacrifice and discipline required to coax the best out of his undoubted talent. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Joe Root, Full Name : Joseph Edward Root, Country : England, Date of Birth : December 30, 1990, Sheffield, Yorkshire, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Legbreak, Teams : England,England Lions,England Under-19s,Sydney Thunder,Trent Rockets (Men),Yorkshire,Yorkshire 2nd XI,Yorkshire Academy,Yorkshire Under-17s,, Profile : That Joe Root would one day captain England was taken as read when he hit the grand old age of 23. The accolade everybody anticipated became his three years later, when Alastair Cook stood down after the 2016-17 tour of India. It was understandable that there were a few fears for Root's future workload. He was rare among England batsmen in achieving maturity so quickly, and had looked consumed by the delights of batting from the moment he first took guard. Now he had new responsibilities. Slight of build, perky of shot and with a scampish grin that got under a bowler's skin, by the time Root was appointed Test captain he had rattled up 53 Tests within five years with an average top side of 50, comfortably the highest among contemporary England players. Early expectations that he would establish himself as an opener did not materialise as an expansive game increasingly seemed better suited to No. 3 or No. 4. He was equally influential in limited-overs cricket where England's commitment to fearless cricket after their 2015 World Cup was much to his tastes, his crispness of stroke and shrewd judgment enabling him to bat purposefully around batsmen of greater weight of shot.Root had never been a strikingly heavy scorer as he worked through the ranks, nor was he particularly athletic, but his systematic approach was that of a young batsman who would not sell his wicket easily and gave England hope that he would be able to attune his game to the highest level. A slender batsman reliant on precision, his patience and stubbornness at the crease had Geoffrey Boycott gushing that he reminded him of himself, although Root soon developed a much broader range. Others saw some of his mentor Michael Vaughan in Root's front-foot drive - the pair also both attended Sheffield Collegiate.Root's Test debut for England in Nagpur in 2012 exemplified the qualities which had attracted coaches from an early age. Picked to tour India on the strength of two encouraging seasons with Yorkshire - and having been named Cricket Writers' Club Young Player of the Year - he impressed enough to be selected for the final Test of the series. He began with England's sixth-longest debut innings in terms of balls faced, scoring 73 from 229 balls as he displayed the patience and discrimination demanded both by the situation of the game and a desperately slow surface. His rise continued with a maiden Test hundred in his home ground, Headingley, against New Zealand in 2013 followed by a maiden Ashes century at Lord's having been promoted to open. Root looked set to occupy that role for many years to come, but his fortunes dipped as the series went on and then crashed along with the team as England were whitewashed in Australia in 2013-14. He began the tour at No. 6, moved up to No. 3 after the enforced departure of Jonathan Trott, then saw his Ashes ended early when he was dropped for the fifth Test in Sydney.Proof of Root's ability came in the way he responded. Back in England, he followed up a two-tone double hundred against Sri Lanka at Lord's - a disciplined innings with a freewheeling finale - with two more big hundreds against India. All three had the not-out asterisk. That seemed to say a lot about him.He even had the fortune to skipper Yorkshire to the Championship title at Trent Bridge in 2014 when Andrew Gale was suspended, less than a fortnight after he became the first Yorkshire batsman to hit an ODI hundred at Headingley, with India the victims. He was also in charge for Yorkshire's thumping defeat at Middlesex, in which they chased down 472 in the fourth innings. To his amusement, his team-mates dubbed him "Craptain". His full potential then poured forth in 2015 when he made 1385 Test runs in the year, and vied with Australia's Steven Smith at the top of the ICC Test rankings. Root played with alacrity on all surfaces and in all formats and his obvious delight in his art was a positive symbol in an England side committed in all formats to a more enterprising approach. Jaunty Ashes hundreds at Cardiff and Nottingham helped England to victories, his consistency at No. 4 repeatedly masked top-order frailties, and a mischievous sense of humour made his success all the more pleasurable.As England fell to defeat against Pakistan in the UAE in late 2015, a pattern began to build up which piqued Root even as he confirmed himself as one of the best batsmen around: his world became rather too full of entertaining 70s and 80s when he felt that a big hundred was there for the taking. Between his hundred in Johannesburg in early 2016 on a triumphant England tour and a century in Rajkot as England slumped 4-0 to India, he passed 50 six times but only converted one into a hundred. There again, it was quite a hundred: a career-best 254 against Pakistan at Old Trafford that banished talk of premature burnout in a non-stop England programme.Firmly established among the modern game's "Big Four" batsmen (Root, Smith, Virat Kohli and Kane Williamson), these were years of easy scoring. In 2015 and 2016 he set consecutive records for runs accumulated across all formats in a calendar year for England, with 2228 and 2570 respectively; in 2017, he came within five runs of surpassing Vaughan's calendar high-water mark of 1481 for England in Tests, which had stood since 2002. The following summer, with back-to-back efforts against India, Root surpassed Marcus Trescothick's English record of 12 ODI hundreds.Problems of conversion returned to afflict him in his second year as Test captain, however. Having made a matchwinning 190 against South Africa at Lord's, in his first match in charge, and a century in England's first day-night Test, against West Indies at Edgbaston, he went more than a year before again reaching three figures in a Test. That period included another unsuccessful Ashes tour of Australia, where Root topped the England averages but could only manage a highest score of 83. Defeat in New Zealand followed, then a messy draw at home to Pakistan, before England rallied to beat No. 1 side India 4-1 and give Root encouragement in his plans to rebuild the Test side.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Matt Parkinson, Full Name : Matthew William Parkinson, Country : England, Date of Birth : October 24, 1996, Bolton, Lancashire, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : England,England Lions,England Under-19s,Lancashire,Lancashire 2nd XI,Manchester Originals (Men),Staffordshire,, Profile : A chirpy legspinner from Bolton, Matt Parkinson was the most prolific white-ball wicket-taker in the country for two seasons before earning an England call-up for the 2019-20 tour of New Zealand. Unlike most modern wristspinners, Parkinson bowls slowly and tosses the ball up above the eyeline, relying on prodigious natural turn and drift rather than pace and variations to take his wickets.Parkinson became the youngest Lancashire player to take five wickets on debut when he claimed 5 for 49 against Warwickshire in 2016 as a 19-year-old, but it was in white-ball cricket that he really grew to prominence. He won an ECB overseas placement with Gordon, the New South Wales club side for 2016-17, and spent time working with Stuart MacGill while in Australia. England Lions recognition soon followed, and he was the leading spinner in both limited-overs competitions in 2018. That prompted some interest from IPL teams, and he missed out on a Big Bash stint with Melbourne Stars due to a stress fracture in his lower back.He recovered in time to take 21 Blast wickets in 2019 and send Lancashire through to the quarter-finals, and while Championship opportunities were limited, he impressed enough in his few appearances to earn an England call-up for both T20I and Test squads.He took five wickets in his six overs when handed a T20I debut in New Zealand, though the tour to South Africa that followed was less successful: his (lack of) pace came under scrutiny during his two ODI appearances, and he was leap-frogged by Dom Bess in the Test reckoning. An ankle injury suffered in England's limited-overs bubble set him back in 2020 and he carried the drinks throughout the subcontinent tour in early 2021. Upon his return to Lancashire, he bowled a ball-of-the-century contender in the first month of the Championship season, which pitched outside leg and pegged back Adam Rossington's off stump.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Craig Overton, Full Name : Craig Overton, Country : England, Date of Birth : April 10, 1994, Barnstaple, Devon, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : England,Devon,Devon Under-11s,Devon Under-13s,Devon Under-15s,Devon Under-17s,Devon Under-19s,Devon Under-21s,England Lions,England Under-19s,Somerset,Somerset 2nd XI,Southern Brave (Men),, Profile : Craig Overton, one of two Somerset fast-bowling twins, won selection for England's 2017-18 tour of Australia after an impressive county season during which, at 23, he seemed to have focused his natural aggression in a way that would enhance his career not hinder it. Overton took 46 Championship wickets at 22.39 and turned in decent limited-overs performances, too, as he threw himself into the fray. He swung the ball, his 6ft 5ins frame meant he could hit the shoulder of the bat and he was increasingly accurate. His brother Jamie was still quicker, but it was Craig, more reliable and less prone to injury, who had first stirred England's hopes. He was also called into England's limited-overs squads during 2016 and there was disappointment at Taunton for England's first T20I there in 2017 when he did not make the XI.Overton showed signs of developing into an England allrounder during an excellent Somerset season in 2015 which brought runs and wickets in all formats and rather too many brushes with authority for his own good. The highlight was 43 Championship wickets at 21.70, the lowlight was three brushes with umpires - the worst of them at Hove when he abused Ashar Zaidi, a Pakistan-born cricketer with a British passport. By the end of the season, it had brought him a two-match ban under the totting-up procedure and a reputation for an unbuttoned lip that was not about to go down well in high places. He claimed not to recollect his comment, but specialist one-on-one sessions with psychotherapist Abbie Kench followed, on the suggestions of Somerset's coach Matthew Maynard, leaving Overton able to join England Lions' Loughborough camp at the end of 2016 with no more transgressions on his record.From the moment that the Overtons took the field for Somerset, English cricket has anticipated the possibility that they could become the first twins to represent England in international cricket. The nearest that has come to happening was when Eric Bedser played alongside Alec Bedser only in a practice game against Tasmania on England's 1950-51 tour of Australia. It almost took place in 2015 when they were 21, both twins called up to England's ODI squad because of injuries, but neither selected.The older of the Overton twins - he was born three minutes before Jamie - Craig made his way into first-class cricket a month earlier and looks to be the more polished cricketer of the pair. Although lacking some of the speed of Jamie, Craig still generates decent pace from a high action that faintly evokes Stuart Broad and appears to have to have the technique to bowl a consistently probing line and length.Products of Instow CC, both represented Devon in age-group cricket before graduating to Somerset and the England Under-19 set-up in early 2012. Craig played seven Championship matches that summer, winning a place at the U19 World Cup and then the Lions tour to Australia in early 2013. While a stress fracture of the back ruined his 2013 season, he was named in the ECB Potential Emerging Player Programme in South Africa at the start of 2014 and the Lions tour to South Africa the following winter. In between times, he enjoyed a fine season with 42 first-class wickets at 28.52 apiece, including a maiden five-wicket haul against Durham. He can bat, too, innings of 86 against Sussex followed by 99 against Lancashire in 2014, and then a maiden hundred - 138 from 133 balls - against Hampshire at Taunton two years later. The twins are hard to tell apart. Jamie was generally regarded as quicker, more extrovert, more suited to Test cricket. Craig was steadier, an allrounder, better suited to one-day cricket, and more of a batsman whereas Jamie is a hitter. But it was Craig who made the greater strides, summoning spells of some hostility that might have led some to mistake him for his brother.Overton took seven wickets in three Tests in Australia and New Zealand in 2017-18 and his combative style won respect, but England looked elsewhere throughout 2018 and he gave them limited cause to select him, a hounding of Yorkshire at Headingley and late-season hat-trick against Nottinghamshire at least securing more Lions tour recognition. He made a one-off appearance during the 2019 Ashes but it was during India's tour in 2021 that he finally enjoyed the taste of victory, taking 6 for 61 in the Headingley Test. He also performed well in the shadow ODI squad selected to play Pakistan after a Covid-19 outbreak and picked up a winner's medal in the inaugural Hundred with Southern Brave.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Eoin Morgan, Full Name : Eoin Joseph Gerard Morgan, Country : England, Date of Birth : September 10, 1986, Dublin, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : England,Ireland,Bangalore Royal Challengers,Bangla Tigers,Barbados Tridents,England A,England Performance Programme,Ireland A,Ireland Under-19s,Karachi Kings,Kerala Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Kolkata Knight Riders,London Spirit (Men),Middlesex,Middlesex 2nd XI,Peshawar Zalmi,Sir Paul Getty's XI,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sydney Thunder,Team Morgan,Tshwane Spartans,, Profile : Eoin Morgan became England's ODI captain in slightly chaotic circumstances less than two months before the 2015 World Cup and was less than enamoured with an entirely inadequate campaign. What he observed, not just from his own side's lacklustre display, but the inspiration provided by Brendon McCullum's New Zealand side, convinced him an entirely new approach was necessary, with a policy of no fear (and no retribution) at its heart. It required a man of strong will not just to say it, but to implement it, but Morgan did so, seeking to fashion an England side that would play with courage and be impervious to pressure or criticism.The revival he led was dramatic, culminating in England lifting the World Cup for the first time at Lord's on a nerve-shredding evening in July 2019. They went into the tournament ranked as the No. 1 ODI side, having set a host of new records, including the two highest scores made in the format. Morgan, relentlessly committed to this bold style of play on good days and bad, was at the heart of the transformation.Morgan's self-sufficiency and independent thought has caused him to tread a path that has not always been popular with English administrators. He preferred the IPL to county cricket long before it was ECB policy. Although he strove for a while to play for England in all three formats, he played the last of his 16 Tests in 2012 and his interest in the longer format appeared to wane once he recognised he had little chance of a recall. A somewhat private man, he is respected by his players for his inner strength, cool temperament and tactical nous but remains largely a closed book to those outside the dressing room.Once the selectors had decided to dispense with Alastair Cook just before Christmas in 2014, Morgan, the regular ODI deputy, was the most obvious candidate. A left-hander who quickly built a reputation for inventive and audacious strokeplay, Morgan also possessed the patience and power of shot to be a natural "finisher" - a role England had struggled to fill for a decade. In some ways, he was a prototype, encouraging the English game to adopt a more inventive approach only subsequently to face up to the challenge that he might be overtaken by more highly-powered models.As a young man in Dublin, Morgan was recognised as a cricketer of rare unorthodox talent, who plays the ball exceptionally late and was adroit both at sweeping and reverse sweeping. Time at Dulwich College only hardened his desire to play for England, which he never tried to hide back in Ireland.Morgan made his Ireland debut at the age of 16, making 99 against Scotland in Ayr, and was soon signed by Middlesex, who gave him his debut a week after his 19th birthday. He floundered in the 2007 World Cup: batting at No. 3, he made only 91 runs in nine games. But he soon established himself in the Middlesex line up, especially in limited-overs cricket, and his switch to England was long anticipated. After securing Ireland's qualification for the 2011 World Cup, in April 2009, he was called up by England, thereby denying Ireland the chances to pick him in the World T20 and beyond.At the age of 23, he shot to prominence on the back of two match-winning innings against South Africa. First was a 34-ball 67 in the Champions Trophy in September 2009, followed two months later with an unbeaten 45-ball 85 in the opening Twenty20 of England's tour of South Africa. His bold approach and crisp hitting evoked comparisons with Kevin Pietersen.His growing stature was confirmed when he was the only England player to be awarded a new contract at the auction for the third season of the IPL in January 2010. He was signed for $220,000 by Bangalore, where he joined England team-mate Pietersen. But he failed to make an impression and was soon left on the bench. He returned to his best for England in the World Twenty20 in the Caribbean as his powerful shot-making and coolness under pressure helped England to their first triumph in global limited-overs events. With three ODI hundreds that year, his first for England coming against Bangladesh in Dhaka, his reputation was soaring.Despite a modest first-class record he was rewarded with a surprise call-up to the Test side for England's first Test of the 2010 summer, against Bangladesh. Walking out to bat at 258 for 4, he could not have asked for a gentler introduction and showed enough confidence to pick up his first Test boundary with a reverse-sweep. With the retirement of Paul Collingwood, a permanent space opened up in England's Test side. Centuries against Pakistan and India represented the high points, but a disastrous tour of the UAE in early 2012 effectively ended his Test career.He remained an indispensable member of the one-day side, though. And while there were prolonged fallow periods - from September 2012, for example, he went a year and 17 innings without an ODI half-century and, by the time he was appointed captain, he had scored one fifty in 19 innings - he produced enough outstanding innings to retain his place. Going into the 2019 World Cup, he was England's record run-scorer in ODIs.While his captaincy record at domestic level was not inspiring and the 2015 World Cup campaign was painfully poor, progress was fast once England embraced a new coaching regime and bolder selections. A watershed series against New Zealand saw England, so hesitant and mediocre at the World Cup, pass 400 for the first time in ODIs and secure their highest successful chase (both records that were subsequently overtaken). A new template had been set.Such was Morgan's stature within the side, he survived his decision to skip the Bangladesh tour in 2016 on security grounds and oversaw a spell of 12 bilateral series wins out of 13, including nine in a row broken only by an aberrational defeat against Scotland. If highlights were a 4-1 victory in Australia in early 2018 and a 5-0 whitewash at home later in the year, it was all a prelude to the 2019 World Cup where he became the first England captain to lift a global 50-over trophy.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Dawid Malan, Full Name : Dawid Johannes Malan, Country : England, Date of Birth : September 03, 1987, Roehampton, England, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : England,Boland,Comilla Warriors,Cumilla Warriors,England Lions,Hobart Hurricanes,Islamabad United,Marylebone Cricket Club,Middlesex,Middlesex 2nd XI,Peshawar Zalmi,Prime Doleshwar Sporting Club,Punjab Kings,Trent Rockets (Men),, Profile : Dawid Malan made a striking entry into international cricket in a T20 international in Cardiff in 2017, demolishing South Africa's attack with 78 from 44 balls - the highest T20 innings by an England debutant. From the time he deposited the second ball, from Chris Morris, over midwicket for six, he never looked back.By the end of the summer, Malan had won a place in England's Ashes tour party, with England hoping he could play a tough-guy role at No 4. His first five Tests, against South Africa and the West Indies, were far from exceptional, with an average of 23.82 and only two half-centuries, but England calculated he possessed the fortitude and, at 30, the know-how to handle an Australian series. He did exactly that by scoring England's first hundred of the Ashes series after they had reached the WACA 2-0 down, a tough, grown-up innings that was exactly what was needed at a time when England were having to answer charges of off-field immaturity. Ed Smith, though, was a restless new national selector and after three Tests of the 2018 summer Malan carried the can for top-order failings. Much emphasis was placed on the fact that his average in England was a paltry 20.23 in eight Tests, with a top score of 65 against West Indies. Middlesex did not bring release: a failed promotion campaign under his leadership, more T20 failure and a Championship average the wrong side of 30. Another failed promotion push in 2019 saw Malan's spell as Middlesex captain end and his departure for Yorkshire. He won a place in England's T20I squad in New Zealand, however, and seized his chance to impress in the absence of a number of senior names. A 48-ball century at Napier, England's fastest in the format, was a significant factor in a hard-fought 3-2 series win - although Eoin Morgan's subsequent criticism of Malan for failing to run a bye off the final ball of the innings suggested he still wasn't a favoured selection, in spite of rising to No.3 in the ICC's T20I rankings.Malan had shown in domestic cricket that he was capable of dominant innings. As an unknown 20-year-old for Middlesex in 2008, he came in at No 6 to hit a brilliant unbeaten hundred in a Twenty20 quarter-final against a Lancashire attack containing Andrew Flintoff, Glen Chapple and Dominic Cork. He was still being called an unknown - in Australia at least - as his twenties drew to a close.Malan had put himself on the verge of an England call-up with a record-breaking performance for England Lions against Sri Lanka A in Northampton in 2016. Malan, the Lions' captain and elder statesman, struck an unbeaten 185 from 126 balls - a record for the Lions or England A in List A cricket, beating 168 by Ravi Bopara against West Indies A in Worcester in 2010.Such exploits looked bound to bring him an England T20 debut when he was named in the squad to face Sri Lanka at the Ageas Bowl, only for him to lose out to the local boy James Vince.  But he put all that behind him with an excellent all-round season for Middlesex, striking three hundreds in their title-winning campaign and scoring heavily in T20 before heading for the Bangladesh Premier League.Malan is a bludgeoning left-handed batsman possessed of power and panache, with some part-time leg spin thrown in. His progress has been undermined by inconsistency and a penchant for soft dismissals.Born in Roehampton but brought up in South Africa, he made his first-class debut for Boland in 2005-06. In 2006 he played 2nd XI cricket for both Middlesex and Worcestershire, making his first-team debut for Middlesex in front of 20,000 people in a T20 Cup match at The Oval. He struggled to find a first-team spot the following season but in 2008 took his chance in style.An impressive run in the Twenty20 earned him a place in the Championship side, where he scored his maiden century against Northamptonshire. But it was that Lancashire T20 innings that stood out as he made 103 off 51 balls, an innings that helped cement his place in the England Performance Squad in November 2008. It was described by his then captain Ed Joyce as 'the best innings I've ever witnessed from a 20-year-old'.He was widely touted as a future England player, but instead his form slumped. In 2013, a Championship average of just 21.50 - across 12 Division One matches and with a top score of 61 - was a desperately poor return for a player of obvious ability. But after almost two years without a Championship hundred, including three dismissals in the 90s, he ended his wait with a century against Northamptonshire in June 2014 - and promptly added another against Somerset a week later. He averaged 45.48 in first-class cricket in 2014 - the first season he had averaged over 40. But Malan was more consistent in white ball cricket, leading to opportunities to play for Prime Doleshwar Sporting Club in Bangladesh. He came to the fore in spectacular style in 2015 when he set career-bests with big hundreds in all three formats of the game. He began with an unbeaten 115 off 64 balls as Middlesex beat Sussex at Hove, damaging a Ferrari with one of his three sixes. An unbeaten 182 in the Championship soon followed as he transformed a Championship match against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge in July and to round it off he hit an unbeaten 156 as Middlesex completed their Royal London One-Day Cup campaign with victory against Glamorgan at Lord's.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Chris Jordan, Full Name : Christopher James Jordan, Country : England, Date of Birth : October 04, 1988, Barbados, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : England,Adelaide Strikers,Barbados,England Lions,Islamabad United,Karachi Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Perth Scorchers,Peshawar Zalmi,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Southern Brave (Men),Sunrisers Hyderabad,Surrey,Surrey 2nd XI,Sussex,Sydney Thunder,Trinbago Knight Riders,, Profile : Chris Jordan, a fast bowler with a level-headed calmness and a fearsome yorker, found his niche as a death specialist in T20 cricket for England after initially breaking through as a bowling allrounder in Tests and ODIs. Jordan's career looked to be going nowhere at the end of 2012 when he was released by Surrey, but he made his international debut less than a year later. He enjoyed a run in England's white-ball sides in the games following the 2013-14 Ashes tour, and was given a Test debut the following summer.He played only twice in the ignominious 2015 World Cup, but had shown enough promise in an England shirt to survive the cull following that tournament. He lost his place in the ODI squad in 2016, but was impressive in the World T20 in India that year: but for Carlos Brathwaite's last-gasp heroics, the fact he went for only eight runs in the 19th over of the final would surely have been remembered more fondly.Jordan remained a lock in England T20I team, and his performance in a series in the Caribbean immediately before the 2019 World Cup nearly brought him in from the wilderness. But his close friend Jofra Archer was named in the eventual squad ahead of him, and he continued to forge a path on the global franchise circuit.Jordan, a right-arm quick bowler born in the home of fast bowling, Barbados, was first spotted in his native land by Bill Athey, who was scouting for a recipient of a cricket scholarship back in England at Dulwich College. He became an exciting prospect at Surrey but failed to emerge as the bowler the county had hoped, not helped by a troubled period in the county's affairs.Jordan was earmarked for great things after Nadeem Shahid, Surrey's Second XI coach, saw five minutes of his all-round ability. Shahid immediately called then first XI coach Alan Butcher to tell him they had a gem on their books. Five days later Jordan was at first-team nets. He impressed there and blazed into Surrey's team in August 2007, looking the part immediately at just 18 years old. It was a hugely promising start with 20 wickets at 24.50 before the year was out but in the following seasons, injuries and inconsistency stalled his career and he missed the whole of 2010 with a back problem. His return in 2011 produced only 11 wickets at 48.00 in the Championship but that winter returned to play for Barbados and his potential was again evident. But back with Surrey in 2012 his impact was minimal and he was released at the end of the season. He went back to Barbados, with the question looming of who he might play for internationally, and excelled again. A move to Sussex in 2013 saw his true potential come to the fore, and England soon took notice. Eligible for England through his grandmother, he was selected for two England Lions fixtures in 2013 - meaning he would have to undertake a qualifying period to play for West Indies - and travelled with the full England ODI squad to Dublin. An ODI debut at the Ageas Bowl against Australia soon followed, before he broke through on the post-Ashes tour that winter. He continued to impress with the ball for Sussex across formats, and has played T20 cricket in the majority of leagues around the world, including the IPL. A useful lower-order batsman, Jordan hit a maiden first-class ton against Essex at Colchester in 2016, and has regularly found himself clearing the ropes to bail England out of trouble. He is also a world-class fielder, whether called upon in the slips, in the outfield, or off his own bowling. ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Ben Foakes, Full Name : Benjamin Thomas Foakes, Country : England, Date of Birth : February 15, 1993, Colchester, Essex, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : England,Colts Cricket Club,England Lions,England Under-17s,England Under-19s,Essex,Essex 2nd XI,Surrey,Surrey 2nd XI,, Profile : A wicketkeeper first and a batsman second, Ben Foakes' excellence behind the stumps for Surrey quickly earned him the reputation as the best gloveman in the country after he cemented his spot in their side in 2016. That form and an injury to Jonny Bairstow earned him a Test debut in Sri Lanka in 2018-19, and he proved that he could bat too with a classy hundred on debut in Galle, while his keeping to the spinners was almost faultless as England won 3-0.But Bairstow was soon back as the first-choice keeper, and even after he was dropped following an underwhelming run with the bat, a disappointing county campaign cost Foakes a spot on England's winter tour to New Zealand, with Jos Buttler preferred. He admitted that he had stopped enjoying the game in 2019, feeling like he was running on empty, and it took a first winter off since he was 17 for him to re-gain that spark. By the spring, he was back on tour, selected as the back-up wicketkeeper for England's tour of Sri Lanka in 2020.Foakes, the son of the former football referee Peter Foakes, who encouraged his interest in sport, but died suddenly when his son was 13, emerged as a promising wicketkeeper-batsman at Essex, earmarked from an early age as an England prospect, but due to the longevity of James Foster, another one-time prodigy, he left to seek further opportunities with Surrey at the end of 2014. It was a wise choice. He realised that he found it hard to motivate himself when he played for Essex as a batsman, but the moment he got the chance to work on his wicketkeeping with Bruce French in England age-group sides his enthusiasm was unbounded.A regular at youth level for his country, Foakes was England's leading run-scorer at the 2012 U-19 World Cup, having made 93 on Championship debut earlier in the summer. Picked for the Lions' limited-overs tour of Australia in 2012-13 before making his List A debut, Foakes was Bairstow's understudy in Sri Lanka the following winter - a role he was used to filling at Essex, with Foster still going strong. He made his maiden first-class and Championship centuries during the 2013 season and, in a mark of England's future planning, was invited to train with the squad and act as 12th man for the first Ashes Test of the summer at Trent Bridge. At 19, with only five first-class matches for Essex, he was selected for the England Lions' tour of Australia at the start of 2013. The tour proved almost as disastrous as the senior tour Down Under later that year, and yet Foakes won a significant admirer: Andy Flower, who was en route to New Zealand for England's series there. It was another season before Foakes got the gloves on a full-time basis at Surrey, but eventually he ousted Steve Davies, leaving Davies confused as to the exact nature of his ambitions: he left for Somerset at the end of 2016. Gary Wilson, another regular Surrey wicketkeeper, moved to Derbyshire. Foakes averaged 44 in the Championship, including a career-best 141 not out against Hampshire in July to turn Surrey's season. He could be an attritional batsman, as his 59 not out from 235 balls against Middlesex in May of that year testified, but he topped the Royal London Cup averages while scoring at better than a run a ball, nothing better than his beautifully-judged 90 against Yorkshire in the semi-final at Headingley.The following year, he averaged top side of 40 in the Championship but unexpectedly his return in the 50-over competition was even higher as he averaged 96.40, passing 50 in six out of 10 knocks and maintaining a rate of better than a run a ball. Competition among England's wicketkeepers was high, but Foakes edged out Buttler as an Ashes tour deputy, months after Alec Stewart - his county coach and not a man for wild pronouncements - had proposed him as the best wicketkeeper in the world. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Jos Buttler, Full Name : Joseph Charles Buttler, Country : England, Date of Birth : September 08, 1990, Taunton, Somerset, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : England,Comilla Victorians,England Development Programme Under-19s,England Lions,England Performance Programme,England Under-19s,Khulna Royal Bengals,Lancashire,Manchester Originals (Men),Melbourne Renegades,Mumbai Cricket Association XI,Mumbai Indians,Rajasthan Royals,Somerset,Somerset 2nd XI,Sydney Thunder,, Profile : England have had many players down the ages who have gained world acclaim, but Jos Buttler is arguably their first global Twenty20 superstar. Buttler helped bring England's limited-overs batting into the 21st century, his impact on the one-day and T20 sides extraordinary as they turned a group-stage exit in the 2015 World Cup into a triumph on home soil four years later, with his efforts with the bat and the gloves crucial to their Super-Over victory in the final. In an 18-month period from mid-2014, he scored what at the time were England's three fastest one-day hundreds - thrilling innings against Sri Lanka at Lord's, New Zealand at Edgbaston and, topping the list, a 46-ball onslaught against Pakistan in Dubai. He has also shone at the IPL, and has quickly become a senior player in the Test side since his surprise recall in 2018.Softly-spoken and unassuming, with supple hands and a great eye, Buttler kills opposing attacks with kindness, with a graceful flip shot for six over long-on and the occasional resort to a nerveless ramp shot over the wicketkeeper among his most eye-catching shots in an inventive repertoire. Like his captain, Eoin Morgan, his unflustered response to even the most daunting run chase is one of his greatest assets, his steely resolve hidden beneath a benign exterior. Such was his impact for Mumbai Indians in his first appearance in IPL in 2016, capable of mayhem late in the innings, that for a young cricket follower in India with only Twenty20 in their heart, it was possible to imagine that England had rarely, if ever, produced a player of such star quality. Buttler was in the crowd at Taunton as a young spectator during the 1999 World Cup when India's Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid thrashed what was then the highest partnership in ODI cricket. He was hooked. Somerset gained special permission from the ECB to add him to their Academy at 12, two years early, and he came to prominence as a 19-year-old in the 2010 season for Somerset, especially in the one-day arena where his clear-minded and quick-footed aggressive batting helped him to 440 CB40 runs at 55.00. He made his first-class debut against Lancashire at Taunton in 2009 and became a regular in the County Championship from May 2010 - playing a part in Somerset's title challenge that season. He combined in particularly potent fashion with Kieron Pollard in Somerset's run to Twenty20 Finals Day in both 2010 and 2011, and impressed in the 2011 CB40 final, making 86 from 72 balls in Somerset's defeat to Surrey.He made his international debut in late 2011 and became a fixture of England's T20 side. A first ODI appearance came against Pakistan in the UAE during the winter, though he had to wait almost a year for his second cap, this time as wicketkeeper. When Ashley Giles took over as limited-overs coach one of his first key decision was to ditch Craig Kieswetter for Buttler on a tour of India. With Kieswetter still preferred as Somerset's gloveman, it was that rivalry that caused Buttler to leave his beloved West Country and switch to Lancashire for the 2014 season. Lancashire saw him for 10 Championship matches, but it was soon apparent he would be making only fleeting visits in the future.England looked to him for impetus and increasingly he delivered, striking 99 against West Indies at North Sound and kicking off the 2014 ODI summer with a first hundred against Sri Lanka at Lord's as he led a failed run chase virtually single-handed. When Matt Prior became stricken by Achilles trouble - what proved to be a career-ending injury - the selectors gambled by throwing Buttler into the Test team. He scored five half-centuries in his first eight Tests, including 85 on debut against India at the Ageas Bowl, but his form faltered and he lost the gloves to Jonny Bairstow on England's tour of the UAE in 2015-16, during a period where his keeping started to make necessary improvements but his batting slip away.There were no such doubts about his place in the white-ball teams. His seniority was recognised when he was named Morgan's vice-captain for the 2015 World Cup and, although that tournament was an unhappy one for England, Buttler was a key member of the side that reached the final of the World T20 a year later. His dynamic batting was emblematic of England's one-day reinvention under Morgan, though he also began to demonstrate increased range to his game - when he led England to an extraordinary one-wicket win over Australia at Old Trafford in 2018, his unbeaten 110 from 122 balls was by far the slowest hundred of his career.Amid increasing demand on the T20 circuit, which included spells in the Bangladesh Premier League and Australia's Big Bash, Buttler's Test star seemed to be waning. He was briefly recalled in India in 2016-17 but then spent more than a year on the fringes, and was even overlooked as Bairstow's back-up during the following winter's Ashes tour. However, his stellar form for Rajashtan Royals in the 2018 IPL - he equalled the league record for consecutive fifties - prompted Smith to pick up the phone. Impressive contributions against Pakistan followed, and then, at long last, a maiden Test hundred, recorded in defeat to India at Trent Bridge. Suddenly, Buttler was integral in all three formats once again.He remained integral to the 50-over side building into the World Cup, and started the tournament itself in flying form with 103 off 76 balls in a defeat against Pakistan and a quick half-century against Bangladesh. But time at the middle was limited through the rest of the group stage, and England were so dominant in the semi-final against Australia that he was not required. In the final, his skill in run chases came to the fore: coming in with England wobbling at 86 for 4 in a chase of 242, he kept them alive with 59 off 60 balls in a 110-run stand with Ben Stokes, and while he could not see them home, he managed seven runs off three balls in the Super Over, and completed the run-out of Martin Guptill to win England the trophy.The highs of World Cup success were quickly forgotten, as Buttler cut a tired figure over the next six months. He struggled for runs in the Ashes and in South Africa, and with Bairstow and Ben Foakes breathing down his neck, it seemed a matter of time before he would lost his Test place. He responded with a breathless 75 off 101 in the home summer against Pakistan to seal a run chase at Old Trafford, before grinding out his highest Test score - 152 - in the final match of the series. By this stage firmly ensconced as England's T20I opener, he continued to lead from the front in their bid to hold both World Cups simultaneously.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Jonny Bairstow, Full Name : Jonathan Marc Bairstow, Country : England, Date of Birth : September 26, 1989, Bradford, Yorkshire, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : England,England Lions,England Performance Programme,Kerala Kings,Melbourne Stars,Peshawar Zalmi,St Kitts & Nevis Invitation XI,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Team Moeen,Team Stokes,Welsh Fire (Men),Yorkshire,Yorkshire 2nd XI,, Profile : Jonny Bairstow, the son of the former England wicketkeeper David Bairstow, is a combative wicketkeeper-batter who has become a cricketer to be reckoned with in England's middle order. The journey was far from easy for Bairstow, especially with Jos Buttler in contention for the gloves, but prolific run-making for Yorkshire eventually made a case that England's selectors could not ignore. Galvanised by his selection, runs flowed.Bairstow's wicketkeeping has rarely met with universal approval and, much to his chagrin, the debate about whether he might be better playing as a specialist batter has never been silenced. But from the moment that he delivered an emotional maiden Test century in Cape Town, where his father had strong off-season links, he began to make a significant mark with England. Nothing could compare with his impact on the one-day team, where his peerless opening partnership with Jason Roy helped deliver England a first World Cup success in 2019.He has had to fight against a tendency to play across the line and, to that end, he stands tall, bat held aloft, adding to his pugnacious image. Driven and independently minded, he is very much his own man. Intensive work with Bruce French, England's wicketkeeping coach, has also made his keeping more secure.Bairstow was a talented all-round sportsman at an early age, even having trials with Leeds United as a right back. But it was cricket which soon dominated. An early starter with Yorkshire's Under-15s, he was named Young Wisden Schools Cricketer of the Year in 2007, having already played for Yorkshire's 2nd XI and their Academy side and represented England Under-17. He soon followed in his father's footsteps by signing a full-time contract with Yorkshire. Jonny was eight-years-old when his father took his own life. Merely to play the game, and for the same county, was courageous enough.He made an impressive first-class debut against Somerset in June 2009, cracking 82 in his second innings, and soon secured his place in the first XI. Further honours followed when he was picked up by England's Performance Programme and included in the England Lions successful tour of the Caribbean in January 2011.By now Yorkshire's first-choice keeper, he registered his maiden first-class hundred against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge in May of that year. Having previously passed fifty 17 times in 34 first-class matches without reaching three figures, just to emphasise his breakthrough, he made it a double. During his brilliant attacking innings, he was joined by England's recently retired opening bowler Ryan Sidebottom in a record ninth-wicket partnership for Yorkshire against Nottinghamshire (which had stood since 1899) of 151. Bairstow and Sidebottom were sons of two of Yorkshire's best-loved former players - the passing of talent between the generations could not have been more satisfactorily captured.Many suspected that, long term, Bairstow would become a specialist batter and his debut innings in one-day internationals backed up that theory as he hit an unbeaten 41 off 21 balls against India at Cardiff. A tough India tour showed the realities of international cricket but he bounced back with a match-winning 60 off 46 in a T20I against Pakistan in the UAE and, after a strong start to the 2012 season, he was handed a call-up to the Test squad to face West Indies.It was not a happy series for Bairstow, whose problems against some hostile short bowling from Kemar Roach gained much media attention. He was left out of the opening Test of the South Africa series but, after Kevin Pietersen was dropped in extraordinary circumstances, another opportunity arose for Bairstow to which he responded magnificently. His brilliant 95 at Lord's led an England fightback from 54 for 4, Bairstow emerging from a short-ball peppering to play some fluent attacking shots in an innings former England captain Michael Vaughan said would have been the finest maiden Test century he had witnessed had his fellow Yorkshireman not been bowled by Morne Morkel.He played all five of England's games at the World T20 that winter, averaging just 9.50, and his participation in the India Test series was also limited before he was granted leave to return home because of a family illness. Thereafter his bit-part status congealed - he lost his spot in the T20 team and, after returning to the Test team during the Ashes as England dropped Nick Compton and moved Joe Root up the order, he was abruptly left out at The Oval. A squad member for the return tour of Australia, he played in the last two Tests, replacing the out-of-form Matt Prior, but did not unearth the performances to promote his worth as Prior's long-term successor and had to buckle down to the county circuit the following summer.That 2015 season promised to be the making of him as he struck 1108 first-class runs at 92.33, allowed by Yorkshire to play as he saw fit. Nothing was more emphatic than his 366-run alliance with Tim Bresnan at Chester-le-Street, both players making career-bests in Yorkshire's fifth-highest stand of all time. England were receptive. A combative 83 not out at Chester-le-Street after a late summons settled a weather-hit ODI against New Zealand in England's favour and the faltering form of Buttler brought a Test recall against Australia.It was Cape Town, though, where Bairstow really broke through, as the summer of 2016 testified. Bairstow's second Test ton was reserved for his home crowd against Sri Lanka: 140, batting at No. 7, out of 298. On a challenging surface, he played with a certainty not given to others. England's top order was repeatedly found wanting in Test cricket, but the belligerence of Bairstow and co down the order constantly dug them out of a hole, and another hundred at Lord's followed.His desire was relentless and his growing impact in ODIs was enough for him to return at the top of the order in the Champions Trophy semi-final - a defeat against Pakistan in Cardiff. West Indies felt his frustration at the end of the summer in the form of his first two ODI hundreds.But even as he became increasingly integral to England's white-ball fortunes, vagaries of selection hurt his Test chances. He scored an Ashes hundred on the 2017-18 tour and another in Christchurch a few months later, but pushed up the order to cover for deficiencies in others, his form dipped; he lost the gloves to Ben Foakes due to injury in Sri Lanka - though scored a bristling century when asked to bat as a specialist at No. 3 - and then saw the role handed to Buttler following a 2-2 draw in the 2019 Ashes.Back-to-back hundreds in crunch World Cup group games against New Zealand and India had been pivotal on England's route to the trophy, his opening partnership with Roy already among the most prolific in history. He enhanced his reputation further in the IPL, but in Tests he drifted to the periphery. Ed Smith, the national selector, suggested he needed to work on his red-ball game but rarely did he have the opportunity to do so; a comeback in 2021 only meeting with fitful success.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : James Anderson, Full Name : James Michael Anderson, Country : England, Date of Birth : July 30, 1982, Burnley, Lancashire, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : England,Auckland,England Under-19s,Lancashire,Lancashire Cricket Board,, Profile : James Anderson had long proved himself as one of the most skilful and prolific fast bowlers in England's history when with the final ball of the 2018 Test summer he eclipsed Glenn McGrath as the most-prolific quick of all. His talents have been particularly apparent in Test cricket where his command of swing bowling, especially on his home grounds, has been the stuff of artistry, bearing comparison with any swing bowler in any age. He has been an integral part of three victorious Ashes campaigns and became the first England bowler to take 500 Test wickets, leaving Ian Botham's previous benchmark of 383 a mere dot on the horizon. His one-day career has also had its moments as he gradually became adept at bowling in a more defensive fashion, but it is as an attacking swing bowler where he has had few peers.Anderson's 500th Test wicket came in September 2017 when he dismissed Kraigg Brathwaite in a Lord's Test against the West Indies. It was a delivery that illustrated his talent, coming down the slope to hit middle stump (his 501st - to bowl Kieran Powell - was even better). He became only the sixth player, and third pace bowler seamer after McGrath and Courtney Walsh, to reach the landmark and admitted to feeling emotional. "Normally it's anger but today it was a bit more, not quite teary but emotional. I don't get like that when trying to focus on my job and it took me a bit by surprise."Anderson has been something of a contradiction. He has had a reputation for being shy and uncommunicative off the field, except in the company of close friends, yet on the field his verbal aggression, which he has argued is necessary to conquer that diffident character, not always endeared him to opponents or critics.For the first six years of Anderson's international career, the best way to sum up his bowling was to paraphrase Mother Goose: when he's good, he's very, very good - and when he's bad, he's horrid. But when the force was with him, he was capable of irresistible spells, seemingly able to swing the ball round corners at an impressive speed.Anderson had played only three one-day games for Lancashire when he was hurried into England's one-day squad in Australia in 2002-03 as cover for Andy Caddick. He didn't have a number - or even a name - on his shirt, but a remarkable ten-over stint, costing just 12 runs, in century heat at Adelaide earned him a World Cup spot. There, he produced a matchwinning spell against Pakistan before a sobering last-over disaster against Australia.Five wickets followed in the first innings of his debut Test, against Zimbabwe at home in 2003, then a one-day hat-trick against Pakistan, but his fortunes waned. For a couple of years Anderson was a peripheral net bowler as attempts to change his action to avoid injury affected his pace and rhythm. That oft-predicted stress fracture kept him out for most of 2006, but he still made the Australian tour and the World Cup. However, as England's 2005 Ashes-winning attack began to fall apart, Anderson made his second coming - starting in Wellington on the 2007-08 tour of New Zealand, where he and Stuart Broad were united for the first time. The same opponents were blown away at Trent Bridge (Anderson 7 for 43) a few weeks later, during a summer that earned Anderson the honour of being named among Wisden's Five Cricketers of the Year. He marked the award, given at the start of the 2009 season, by making the West Indians looked clueless at Chester-le-Street (nine wickets in the match).In 2010 Anderson came of age in a staggeringly comprehensive fashion. No longer content with being unplayable when the mood caught him, he took the decision to shelve the "magic balls" and concentrated on hammering out a rock-solid line and length, with dot balls and maidens his new holy grail. The upshot was a scintillating year in which he proved unhittable in every sense, with an economy rate that ramped up the pressure in every spell, and a range of weapons that made him a threat on every surface. A career-best 11-wicket haul against Pakistan at Trent Bridge, when he came as close to unplayable as at any time in his career, was the prelude to a breakthrough tour of Australia in the winter of 2010-11. Anderson arrived to a torrent of doubters, who recalled his forlorn performance on the preceding Ashes four years earlier, in which he had taken five wickets at 82.60. But he left with a series-sealing 24 scalps at 26.04, and a reputation transformed. Deadly with conventional swing and seam, and with a new line in reverse swing as well, he had become arguably the most complete fast bowler in the world. He was awarded the Freedom of Burnley - his home town - in 2012, which was also his benefit year, and also eased past Brian Statham's 252 Test wickets to become Lancashire's most successful England bowler. His increased range was demonstrated in India the following winter, when Anderson claimed 12 wickets at 30.25 but was described by MS Dhoni as "the major difference between the two sides".In 2013, fittingly at Lord's, a ground where enjoyed much success, he became the fourth England bowler to reach 300 Test wickets when he had Peter Fulton caught at slip. When he began the Ashes with a match-winning 10-wicket haul at Trent Bridge his form showed no signs of abating, but the following nine Tests against Australia were far less successful as a chastened England returned home after the battering down under in 2013-14.Anderson took 37 wickets in seven Tests against Sri Lanka and India in 2014, but his reputation was sullied by a verbal confrontation in the first Test at Trent Bridge with India's Ravindra Jadeja and accusations of pushing and shoving on the way in the dressing room corridor. India insisted that his behaviour had become unacceptable, but the resulting ICC investigation could not separate the truth from the lies and both men got off lightly. The World Cup in the antipodes was another unhappy episode, as the curtain came down on Anderson's 194-game ODI career - another format in which he was England's leading wicket-taking exponent - after an ignominious group-stage exit.By then, England's Test bowling records were bound to fall his way. He passed Botham's record Test-wicket haul in the Caribbean and shortly afterwards reached 400 against New Zealand at Headingley. His fitness remained exemplary, his action as rhythmical as ever, and his appetite still powerful enough to imagine, as he passed his 33rd birthday, playing for another five years. A northern spring, Sri Lanka the opposition, cheered him with three five-wicket hails in successive Tests in Leeds and Chester-le-Street in 2016, but a shoulder injury marred his summer and he was innocuous on Indian pitches as England slumped to a 4-0 defeat that winter. The 500-mark beckoned, however, and a fit-again Anderson averaged 14.10 during the home series against South Africa and West Indies. He was the pick of the attack as England were crushed in Australia yet again, and continued to rule the roost at home. When he bowled Mohammed Shami to complete England's 4-1 win over India and record his 564th Test wicket, McGrath's pace-bowling record was eclipsed - and there were tears on the outfield from Anderson, as he contemplated the retirement of his great mate Alastair Cook.That Anderson's left-hand batting has also steadily improved from his early days as a fully paid-up rabbit was illustrated when he struck 81 against India in 2014 - his maiden first-class fifty - as he shared a Test record stand of 198 for the tenth wicket with Joe Root in the first innings. He has served England with distinction as a nightwatchman on numerous occasions and went 54 Test innings before collecting a duck, an England record. At Cardiff in 2009 he survived for 69 nail-chewing minutes to help stave off defeat by Australia. He has also been an outstanding fielder, strikingly so for a fast bowler, lithe in the outfield and sharp in the catching positions.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Shahid Afridi, Full Name : Sahibzada Mohammad Shahid Khan Afridi, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : March 01, 1980, Khyber Agency, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak googly, Teams : Pakistan,Asia XI,Brampton Wolves,Deccan Chargers,Dhaka Gladiators,Dhaka Platoon,Edmonton Royals,Fly Emirates XI,Galle Gladiators,Griqualand West,Habib Bank Limited,Hampshire,ICC World XI,Jamaica Tallawahs,Karachi,Karachi Kings,Karachi Region Blues,Kowloon Cantons,Leicestershire,Melbourne Renegades,Multan Sultans,Northamptonshire,Peshawar Zalmi,Rangpur Riders,Ruhuna Royals,South Australia,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,, Profile : Of Shahid Afridi it can safely be said that cricket never has and never will see another like him. To say he is an allrounder is to say Albert Einstein was a scientist; it tells a criminally bare story.For a start, the slant of his all-round skills only became clear ten years into his career; he is a leg-spinning allrounder. Variety is his calling and as well as a traditional leg-break, he has two googlies, a conventional offie and a lethal faster one, though this is increasingly rare. All come with the threat of considerable, late drift. He fairly hustles through overs, which in limited-over formats is a weapon in itself and the package is dangerous.But forever associated with him will be his madcap batting, the prospect of which is a crowd-puller the world over. He is a compulsive basher, literally unable to control his urges to slog every ball that comes his way, and not much of it is classical. Often spectacular results are at hand; he owns, for example, two of the fastest ODI hundreds, including the fastest one ever in his first innings ever at the age of 16. His career strike rates are nearly unmatched. But mostly, anywhere in the order, consistency has been missing.Despite a healthy Test career, he gave up on the format in 2006, pre-empting men such as Andrew Flintoff, to maximise fully a limited-overs career. He came back, in inimitable fashion, for one Test only, as captain no less in 2010. A loss and two slogs meant he re-retired immediately after. Twenty20 is something he could've been made for and he is among the most lethal players of the format, having been player of the tournament for the inaugural edition of the World Twenty20 in 2007 and led Pakistan to the title two years later with matchwinning all-round hands in the semi and final.Maturity has often threatened to gatecrash his career and leadership was a just reward, though it was taken away from him in 2011 after an immature spat; another retirement was announced but none of it will change much a truly unique career.Osman Samiuddin
Name : Zahid Mahmood, Full Name : Zahid Mahmood, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : March 20, 1988, Dadu, Sind, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : Pakistan,Hyderabad (Pakistan),Larkana Bulls,Quetta Gladiators,, Profile : 
Name : Wahab Riaz, Full Name : Wahab Riaz, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : June 28, 1985, Lahore, Punjab, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast, Teams : Pakistan,Barbados Tridents,Brampton Wolves,Cape Town Blitz,Central Punjab (Pakistan),City Nazim XI,Comilla Victorians,Derbyshire,Dhaka Dynamites,Essex,Essex 2nd XI,Hyderabad (Pakistan),Hyderabad Region,Imtiaz Ahmed's XI,Kandahar Knights,Kandy Tuskers,Karachi Kings,Karachi Port Trust,Kent,Kowloon Cantons,Lahore,Lahore Eagles,Lahore Lions,Lahore Ravi,Lahore Region Whites,Lahore Shalimar,National Bank of Pakistan,North West Frontier Province-Baluchistan,Northern Warriors,Pakistan A,Pakistan All Star XI,Pakistan Blues,Pakistan Chief Ministers XI,Pakistan Cricket Academy,Pakistan Cricket Board Patron's XI,Pakistan Greens,Pakistan Under-17s,Pakistan Under-19s,Peshawar Zalmi,Punjab (Pakistan),Punjab Badshahs,Rangpur Riders,St Lucia Kings,Surrey,Trent Rockets (Men),Water and Power Development Authority,, Profile : Wahab Riaz, a left-arm fast bowler, has the pace to trouble the best, but hasn't always combined it with consistency. He has benefited from Pakistan's chronic poor luck with fast bowlers: with Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif missing more than they play and Umar Gul injury-prone, Riaz came into national reckoning earlier than he might have reasonably expected. Since then he has had some good moments in international cricket, but consistency hasn't been his strongest suit.On his Test debut, against England at The Oval in 2010, Riaz took 5 for 63, becoming the ninth Pakistan bowler to take five on debut. Among his victims were Andrew Strauss, Jonathan Trott and Kevin Pietersen. However, he had poor tours of New Zealand and West Indies in 2011, and was dropped from the Test side.As an ODI bowler he has been a wicket-taker but has also leaked plenty of runs. His ODI best came in a big game, when he took 5 for 46 against India in the World Cup semi-final in Mohali - among his wickets were Virender Sehwag, Virat Kohli, Yuvraj Singh and MS Dhoni - but it wasn't enough to prevent defeat. Since then he has been in the mix in Pakistan's ODI side, even though his economy rate continues to be a concern.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Sohaib Maqsood, Full Name : Sohaib Maqsood, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : April 15, 1987, Multan, Punjab, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Pakistan,Baluchistan,Lahore Qalandars,Multan Region,Multan Sultans,Multan Tigers,National Bank of Pakistan,Pakistan Under-19s,Peshawar Zalmi,Water and Power Development Authority,, Profile : Pakistan expects big things from Sohaib Maqsood, who shares his city of birth with Inzamam-ul-Haq (both were born in Multan), and is only the fifth Pakistan batsman to score fifties in his first two ODI innings. He made his international debut in 2013, but those who've seen him bat reckon he could have played for Pakistan much earlier had it not been for a spate of injuries.Maqsood made his first-class debut way back in 2004 before he had turned 17, and was primarily an offspinner at the time: he batted at No. 11 and bowled 16 wicketless overs on debut. However, a back injury kept him out of first-class cricket for the next three years, and also cut short his aspirations to be a bowler. He returned to first-class cricket in 2007-08 and immediately showed his skills as a middle-order batsman, scoring 537 runs at 53.70. He then battled through a period of poor form and a career-threatening ankle ligament injury in 2010, but all those setbacks only made him hungrier when he returned: in the 2010-11 season, he scored 951 runs, and in 2012-13, he amassed 1020. His List A stats that season were even more impressive: 944 runs at an average of 78 and a strike rate of 105, numbers which gave him a place in Pakistan's Twenty20 squad for the matches in Zimbabwe this year, and subsequently for the ODIs against South Africa in the UAE.Maqsood's strength is his off-side strokeplay, with the back-foot punch being a favourite. On his ODI debut he scored 56 off 54 against a South African attack that included Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel and Lonwabo Tsotsobe, and followed that up with 53 when no other Pakistan batsman scored more than 30.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Mohammad Rizwan, Full Name : Mohammad Rizwan, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : June 01, 1992, Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : Pakistan,FATA Region,Karachi Kings,Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Fighters,Lahore Qalandars,Multan Sultans,North West Frontier Province-Baluchistan,Pakistan A,Pakistan Chief Ministers XI,Pakistan Emerging Team,Pakistan Under-19s,Pakistan Under-23s,Peshawar,Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited,Sydney Sixers,, Profile : For several years, it appeared Mohammad Rizwan's international career would only happen in a parallel universe, racking up domestic runs even as he struggled to get a game in the national side. But for someone who played an international for the first time in two years in January 2019, Mohammad Rizwan was spoken of remarkably frequently. Most often, he was used as a stick to threaten current first-choice Pakistan wicketkeeper and captain Sarfaraz Ahmed, but the Peshawar native had qualities of his own that suggested he might have been unfortunate not to play for Pakistan more often. A limited batsman but a technically sound keeper when he first rose through the ranks, Rizwan made his international debut shortly after the 2015 World Cup when the slot behind the stumps was still up for grabs. He made a bright start against Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, averaging nearly 60 with the bat in his first eight innings, but against more challenging opposition, his deficiencies were quickly exposed. A lengthy lean patch followed, and once he lost his place to Sarfaraz for the World T20 in 2016, there was little doubt who Pakistan's No. 1 wicketkeeper was. After the debacle at the World T20, Sarfaraz was appointed captain of the limited-overs sides, and consequently Rizwan's game time diminished further, coming to a complete halt until Sarfaraz sat out the last five games on the tour to South Africa in January 2019 serving a ban. On the domestic circuit, Rizwan has been a prolific run-accumulator, averaging a shade under 50 in List A cricket and 41 at first-class level. He doesn't, however, seem to have the shots necessary to make him a valuable asset in T20Is, but with that being Sarfaraz's strongest suit, both as a batsman and captain, it would have been hard to dislodge him in the format at any rate. Having made his debut over a decade ago on Pakistan's domestic circuit, Rizwan has been an ever-present participant in the Quaid-e-Azam trophy, plying his trade with the hugely successful SNGPL side, helping his side to three titles in the last four years. For that, the reward of a solitary Test cap in 2016 feels somewhat inadequate.He played for Karachi Kings in the Pakistan Super League, serving as back-up to Chadwick Walton for a couple of seasons, but once Sarfaraz Ahmed was dropped from the side, Rizwan's career trajectory skyrocketed.A 95 in Brisbane in his first Test since being called up got him off to a good start, but it was Pakistan's tour to England where he truly cemented his spot as Pakistan's first choice wicketkeeper. A pair of half-centuries in Southampton combined with a near-perfect series behind the stumps demonstrated to Pakistan they have found a long-term wicketkeeping solution, and Rizwan found himself appointed vice-captain of the Test side, and fast-tracked into the white ball team.T20s and Rizwan didn't seem naturally suited to each other, but 2021 has seen him make a mockery of those predictions with a record-breaking year. He began by smashing an unbeaten 104 against South Africa, followed up by seven further half-centuries that saw him amass the most T20I runs in a single year by any player. For good measure, he was also the second highest runscorer at the 2021 PSL - behind only his Pakistan opening partner Babar Azam - and led Multan Sultans to the PSL title. His stability and consistency at the top of the order converted what tended to be a Pakistan weakness into a Pakistan strength. Rizwan now appears to be in the prime of his career, and one of Pakistan's most prized assets heading into the 2021 World T20.Danyal Rasool
Name : Imad Wasim, Full Name : Syed Imad Wasim, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : December 18, 1988, Swansea, Glamorgan, Wales, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Pakistan,Abu Dhabi United,Barbados Tridents,Barisal Bulls,Chattogram Challengers,Comilla Victorians,FATA Region,Federal Areas Leopards,Islamabad,Islamabad Leopards,Islamabad Region,Jamaica Tallawahs,Karachi Kings,Maratha Arabians,Melbourne Renegades,Nottinghamshire,Pakistan Cricket Academy,Pakistan Under-19s,Punjab Badshahs,Sind,, Profile : Imad Wasim had been set to study medicine but the offer to play for the Pakistan Under-19 made him change his mind and since then there has been no looking back. Like many aspiring players from his country, he wanted to emulate Wasim Akram but he didn't have the pace his coaches were looking for. Still, the switch to left-arm spin has worked for him. A capable middle-order batsman as well, he was part of the Pakistan side that won the Youth World Cup in 2006, before captaining them in the next edition. It wasn't until 2015, when the senior team were searching for a replacement for the suspended Saeed Ajmal, that Imad got his shot at international cricket. He spent the intervening period playing league cricket in England and Ireland, which he said was instrumental to his development. Adding to his connection to the UK, Imad was born in Swansea. Also a factor in his rise up the ranks was his first-class experience - he struck a half-century for Islamabad on debut in 2007, took an eight-for in 2013 and clattered a maiden double-hundred in 2014. Imad made his T20I debut when cricket returned to Pakistan six years after the Lahore attack in 2009, and represented his country in the World T20 that followed in 2016. 
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Iftikhar Ahmed, Full Name : Iftikhar Ahmed, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : September 03, 1990, Peshawar, North-West Frontier Province, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : Pakistan,Islamabad United,Karachi Kings,Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Fighters,North West Frontier Province,Pakistan A,Pakistan Cricket Board Patron's XI,Peshawar,Peshawar Zalmi,Punjab (Pakistan),Sind,Sui Gas Corporation of Pakistan,Water and Power Development Authority,, Profile : 
Name : Haris Sohail, Full Name : Haris Sohail, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : January 09, 1989, Sialkot, Punjab, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Pakistan,Baluchistan,FATA Region,Karachi Whites,Lahore Qalandars,Pakistan A,Pakistan Blues,Pakistan Cricket Board XI,Pakistan Under-23s,Peshawar Zalmi,Punjab (Pakistan),Punjab Badshahs,Sialkot,Zarai Taraqiati Bank Limited,, Profile : A left-hand middle-order batsman, Haris Sohail began playing for Sialkot, his hometown, before moving to ZTBL. After scoring a century in the final of an Under-19 tournament for Sialkot, he was asked to get on a plane and join the senior side in Karachi the next day for his first-class debut in 2007. He established himself in the 2010-11 season, scoring 654 runs in 12 first-class games including his personal best of 211. He passed the 1000-run mark the following season and his performances gave him an opportunity to face England in a tour match in the UAE. A few months later, he was called up to the Pakistan side for the Twenty20s in Sri Lanka in 2012. ESPNcricinfo Staff
Name : Fakhar Zaman, Full Name : Fakhar Zaman, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : April 10, 1990, Mardan, North-West Frontier Province, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : Pakistan,Abbottabad,Abbottabad Falcons,Comilla Victorians,Danube Lions,Glamorgan,Habib Bank Limited,Karachi Blues,Karachi Dolphins,Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,Lahore Qalandars,Pakhtoons,Pakistan A,Pakistan Navy,Peshawar,, Profile : Born in Mardan, where the standard of batsmanship will always be measured by arguably Pakistan's greatest Test batsman Younis Khan, Fakhar Zaman has been on Pakistan's thankless domestic circuit for over five years with almost no attention. A left-handed opener with an unusually high backlift, Zaman relies on timing for his runs, which he's made plenty of. This is illustrated by his domestic average (42 in first class cricket and 49 in List A). But it wasn't until the Quaid-e-Azam trophy in 2016-17 that his form began to be noticed. Zaman scored 663 runs in the competition at an average of 51, including 170 in the second innings of the final, a game dominated by the twin centuries of former Pakistan captain Salman Butt.However, his prolific form earned him a contract in the PSL with the Lahore Qalandars. He showed flashes of the class he'd been displaying domestically, particularly during a 33-ball 56 against Karachi where he destroyed the opposition bowling and looked extremely elegant while doing so. It earned him a call-up to Pakistan's T20I side for the West Indies tour, and he made his debut in the second match in Port of Spain.His first three T20Is only brought him 26 runs, and much of the world was still unaware of his talent when he made his ODI debut a couple of months later, in England, during the 2017 Champions Trophy. Having missed the opening-match defeat to India, Zaman turned Pakistan's batting fortunes around with scores of 31, 50, 57 and 114 in his first four ODI innings, his strike rate of 113.00 giving a dated 50-overs line-up much-needed oomph at the top of the order. The maiden hundred went on to win him the Player-of-the-Match award in the final, setting up a total of 338 that proved a long way beyond India's reach.Danyal Rasool
Name : Azhar Ali, Full Name : Azhar Ali, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : February 19, 1985, Lahore, Punjab, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : Pakistan,Baluchistan,Baluchistan Warriors,Central Punjab (Pakistan),Imtiaz Ahmed's XI,Khan Research Laboratories,Lahore,Lahore Blues,Lahore Eagles,Lahore Lions,Lahore Qalandars,Lahore Region Whites,Pakistan A,Pakistan Cricket Academy,Pakistan Cricket Board Blues,Pakistan Cricket Board Patron's XI,Pakistan Greens,Pakistan Under-15s,Pakistan Under-19s,Punjab,Punjab Badshahs,Punjab Stallions,Rawalpindi,Somerset,Somerset 2nd XI,Sui Gas Corporation of Pakistan,The Rest,, Profile : An opening batsman by trade, Azhar has worked his way steadily up Pakistan's domestic scene since 2006. That was the season he began opening regularly for Khan Research Laboratories, a move that fetched him two hundreds and two fifties in five matches, and he hasn't looked back. All of his runs have been made with a compact technique, designed to get behind the line of each ball. Observers say he gets into a tangle against the shorter ball often but his patience is key. On an A tour to Australia in 2009, he twice made five-hour 70s against an attack that included Doug Bollinger, Clint McKay and Jason Krejza. That series propelled him into senior team focus and a solid if not spectacular 2009-10 season, coupled with a move to look beyond Younis Khan - this didn't quite work out - and Mohammad Yousuf, brought about a richly-deserved Test debut in the middle order at Lord's against Australia. Azhar scored his first Test fifty in his second Test, in difficult batting conditions at Headingley, in a fourth-innings run-chase of 180 against Australia. His first Test hundred came only after he'd scored ten fifties, but that was only a minor blemish. Soon after that century against Sri Lanka came his landmark Test series, against England in the UAE in 2011-12, when he showed remarkable patience and temperament to score a second-innings century in another low-scoring match in Dubai. In a series dominated by the bowlers, Azhar was the only batsman from either side to average more than 50. He was named ODI captain after the 2015 World Cup, taking over from Misbah-ul-Haq, but here's where Azhar ran into trouble. Pakistan slipped to a record-low No. 9 in ODIs under him before rising a place, just about qualifying for the 2017 Champions Trophy that featured the top-eight teams. In all they won 12 and lost 18 ODIs under Azhar, before he quit the captaincy in February 2017 in the wake of a 4-1 loss to Australia.Osman Samiuddin and ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Azam Khan, Full Name : Azam Khan, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : August 10, 1998, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : Pakistan,Barbados Royals,Galle Gladiators,Pakistan Television,Quetta Gladiators,, Profile : 
Name : Asif Ali, Full Name : Asif Ali, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : October 01, 1991, Faisalabad, Punjab, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : Pakistan,Barbados Tridents,Cape Town Blitz,Danube Lions,Dhaka Platoon,Edmonton Royals,Faisalabad,Faisalabad Region,Islamabad United,Jamaica Tallawahs,Pokhara Rhinos,Punjab (Pakistan),Sind,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Sui Gas Corporation of Pakistan,United Bank Limited,, Profile : Where was Asif Ali in the years Pakistan had been crying out for a power hitter? It took the exposure of the PSL for Asif Ali to come to prominence in an Islamabad United side that owed much to him for their title-winning campaign in 2018. A six in a Super Over against Mustafizur Rahman got their campaign up and running, and it wasn't until he smashed three sixes in arrow in a nerve-wracking chase that his side were assured victory. Those heroics saw him called up to the national side for three T20Is against West Indies, where he made the step-up with consummate ease. Clear about his role in the team, he's already played several vital cameos in the shortest format to get his side over the line, with a strike rate around 160 proof of his comfort at the highest level. As a finisher in ODI cricket, he similarly impresses, although he may have to move lower down the order if Pakistan's middle order fragility continues; his power hitting exploits are not best suited for the No. 6 position. But what's most important is he fills a very specific need within the team, and if the first few months are anything to go by, he fills it very well indeed. Given he is 26 and has a strike rate above 140 in 88 T20s, it does seem a bit of a scouting failure Asif wasn't given a promotion to the national side a few years earlier, when much of Pakistan's struggles in T20 and ODI cricket were to do with lack of firepower in the death overs. It bodes well for Pakistan he's hit the ground running, eager to make up for lost time. Danyal Rasool
Name : Abid Ali, Full Name : Abid Ali, Country : Pakistan, Date of Birth : October 16, 1987, Lahore, Punjab, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : Pakistan,Baluchistan,Baluchistan Bears,Baluchistan Warriors,Federally Administered Tribal Areas,Habib Bank Limited,Islamabad,Lahore Eagles,Lahore Qalandars,Lahore Ravi,Lahore Region Whites,Lahore Shalimar,North West Frontier Province-Baluchistan,Pakistan A,Pakistan Under-19s,State Bank of Pakistan,The Rest,United Bank Limited,Zarai Taraqiati Bank Limited,, Profile : It wasn't until he was 31 that Abid Ali got his chance to represent Pakistan internationally, and though he marked it with a century, there was a sense it came in the wrong format. Since he made his debut in the Quaid-e-Azam trophy in 2007, Abid was an ever-present on Pakistan's domestic circuit, accumulating over 6,000 runs. He carried his bat for Islamabad in 2017-18, scoring 231, and, a few months after that ODI debut, followed it up with an unbeaten 249.That prompted a call-up to the Test side for Pakistan's home series against Sri Lanka, and in the first Test in a decade played in the country, Abid would get his chance to the form of the game that perhaps came most naturally to him. Despite much of it lost to rain, he would mark it with a personal milestone, becoming the first man in cricketing history to score a century on both Test and ODI debut. It cemented his role as first-choice opener for Pakistan, and he was picked for the tour of England in 2020. While a truly big score eluded him, he scored a half-century, and survived 50 overs in the second innings of the final Test, helping Pakistan secure a draw. A right-handed batsman, Abid is particularly strong off the back foot through the offside, and while he prefers getting in line behind the ball, his head does have the tendency to fall over, leaving him vulnerable to the lbw. His rise presents Pakistan with a viable candidate for opener which is especially welcome, given the void left by Imam-ul-Haq's struggles to replicate his ODI form in the red-ball format. Having been overlooked for as long as he was even as he piled on the runs domestically, one wondered if his chance had gone. Having been presented one, he appears eager to make up for lost time, and will want to ensure he ends up with an international career to match his domestic one, and not simply as a somewhat tricky answer to a pub quiz question. Danyal Rasool
Name : AB de Villiers, Full Name : Abraham Benjamin de Villiers, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : February 17, 1984, Pretoria, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : South Africa,Africa XI,Barbados Tridents,Botha XI,Brisbane Heat,Cricket South Africa Invitation XI,Delhi Daredevils,Jacques Kallis Invitational XI,Lahore Qalandars,Middlesex,North Eastern Transvaal,Pretoria University,Proteas,Rangpur Riders,Rest of South Africa,Royal Challengers Bangalore,South Africa A,South Africa Under-19s,Titans,Tshwane Spartans,, Profile : A batsman of breathtaking chutzpah and enterprise. A cricketer with overflowing talent and the temperament to back it up. A fielder able to leap tall buildings and still come up with the catch - and who will happily move behind the stumps into the wicketkeeper's spot if needed. A fine rugby player, golfer, and tennis player. AB de Villiers has emerged as one of South Africa's greats.De Villiers is a 360-degree batsman who can hit any ball, anywhere, against any bowler. Indeed, his range of inventive shots has grown as his career has unfolded. He has been ranked among the top Test and ODI batsmen in the world and has established a cult-like following in T20 cricket, where his performances in the IPL have earned him a legion of Indian fans. De Villiers made his Test debut against England in 2004 (in the same match as Dale Steyn), when he was picked after just 16 first-class matches. He opened the batting in that match. He was later moved into the middle order and asked to keep wicket. That would become the story of his career. De Villiers has batted everywhere from No.1 to No.8 and performed well in most of those positions. After a brief slump in form in 2006 and 2007, de Villiers' returned early in 2008 with a blistering 103 not out off 109 balls in Durban against West Indies. Later that year, he became the first South African to score a double-century against India with his undefeated 217 at Ahmedabad. He topped that up with 174 at Leeds in South Africa's first series win in England since readmission and a 106* against Australia in Perth in the country's first series win in Australia post-readmission. That was de Villiers' best Test year, with 1061 runs at 58.94. He first came close to that again in 2010, when he scored 996 runs in the calendar year. His 278* against Pakistan in Abu Dhabi gave him the highest individual score by a South African in Test cricket (Hashim Amla later scored a triple-century). That same year, de Villiers also struck three successive ODI centuries - two against India and one against West Indies. The second time he came within touching distance of four figures in a Test calendar year was in 2013 when he scored 933 runs to ensure South Africa kept the Test mace they won in 2012. By then, de Villiers had also accepted the responsibility of full-time Test gloveman after Mark Boucher's retirement, as well as the ODI and T20 captaincy after Graeme Smith stepped down. He later handed over the T20 reigns to Faf du Plessis. De Villiers blossomed with the additional responsibility, even as concerns over a chronic back injury grew. He was relieved from keeping in shorter formats to concentrate on captaincy when Quinton de Kock was included in South African squad. By 2014, he had also handed the Test keeper's gloves to de Kock. That seemed a sensible decision because Smith retired in March that year and de Villiers was believed to be the natural successor. However, he was overlooked in favour of Amla.That did nothing to dim de Villiers' resolve. He came back with even more striking power than before and in January 2015 broke the record for the fastest ODI century, reaching it in just 31 balls against West Indies at the Wanderers. That was the loudest warning cry he could have made for South Africa's chances at the 2015 World Cup, but it proved a false one. Despite inspirational leadership from de Villiers, who routinely called his team "the best" at the tournament, South Africa bowed out at semi-final stage.The one stage de Villiers did not set alight was international T20 cricket, where he often found himself batting too low in the line-up and with not enough time to make an impact. He rectified that through the IPL, where he was one of the Royal Challengers Bangalore's most successful players. In a memorable match in the 2014 edition of the competition, de Villiers smacked his countryman Steyn for 23 runs in one over. With de Villiers in high demand from foreign leagues, his workload became a talking point in the 2015-16 summer when he suggested he would have to look at ways to lighten the load. There were rumours of early retirement but those were quashed when he was asked to stand in as Test captain when Amla gave up the job mid-series against England. It was a job de Villiers had always wanted and accepted immediately. He was appointed permanent Test captain in January 2016.
ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Dwaine Pretorius, Full Name : Dwaine Pretorius, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : March 29, 1989, Randfontein, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : South Africa,Lions,North West,South Africa Emerging Players,South Africa Under-19s,, Profile : An allrounder who swapped pace for precision because of twin knee injuries, Dwaine Pretorius is a late bloomer whose batting is as important as his bowling. In the post-Jacques Kallis era, Pretorius' away swingers and lower-order runs earned his first international call-up in 2016.That was eight years after Pretorius was named in South Africa's under-19 squad for the 2008 World Cup. He never got to the tournament because he tore a cartilage in his right knee. Having seen the fragility of a sportsman's career, Pretorius put it aside as an option and chose to study instead. Three years later, armed with an accounting degree, he decided to give cricket another go.Pretorius joined the North-West provincial side in the 2010-11 season and only got a look-in for the final game of the summer. He scored 53 and took 5 for 38, and became a regular member of the side the following season. In 2011-12, he was named the T20 Amateur Cricketer of the Year and was included in the Lions' squad for the 2012 Champions League T20, but the knee flared up again and he required surgery.When Pretorius returned, he stopped striving for speed and shelved the idea of bowling 140+. Instead, he operated in the mid-130s and tried to emulate Vernon Philander's accuracy. He earned a franchise contract in the 2014-15 season and was named the South African Cricketers' Association's MVP in 2015. In winter 2016, he traveled with the South Africa A squad to play a quadrangular competition in Australia and in September 2016, he was called up to South Africa's ODI squad to play Ireland. Although Pretorius was only due to play that game, he was retained for the ODI series against Australia when Wayne Parnell was injured.Pretorius was called up to South Africa's Test squad to Australia in November after Dale Steyn broke his shoulder, on the back of strong batting performances in South Africa's first-class competition.Firdose Moonda
Name : Keegan Petersen, Full Name : Keegan Darryl Petersen, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : August 08, 1993, Paarl, Western Cape, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : South Africa,Boland,Boland Under-17s,Boland Under-18s,Boland Under-19s,Cape Cobras,, Profile : Like another "KP", Keegan Petersen is an aggressive right-hand batsman but, unlike his namesake, of slighter build and from the western coast of the country. Brought up in Paarl, Petersen played for Boland Under-19s, before being promoted to their provincial side. He was the leading run-scorer in the first-class three-day competition in 2013-14, scoring 965 runs at 48.25, which included the competition's top score of 225*. He was duly named the Three-day Cricketer of the Year at CSA's annual awards. Petersen was contracted to Cape Cobras in the 2014-15 season, but only played in two franchise first-class matches that season. He spent that winter at Lancashire's Read Cricket Club. Petersen enjoyed more game time in the 2015-16 summer with four first-class matches, two one-day cup games and three T20s, but is still searching for a way to nail down a regular place in the starting XI.  Firdose Moonda
Name : David Miller, Full Name : David Andrew Miller, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : June 10, 1989, Pietermaritzburg, Natal, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : South Africa,Bengal Tigers,Dolphins,Durban Heat,Durham,Eagles (UAE),Glamorgan,Hobart Hurricanes,ICC World XI,Jamaica Tallawahs,Kings XI Punjab,KwaZulu-Natal,KwaZulu-Natal Inland Under-19s,Peshawar Zalmi,Rajasthan Royals,South Africa A,South Africa Academy,South African Schools,St Lucia Zouks,Uthura Rudras,Winnipeg Hawks,Yorkshire,, Profile : A hard-hitting left-hander with a penchant for clearing the boundary, David Miller made famous the phrase: "If it's in the arc, it's out the park." Miller is a self-styled finisher, who is strong off the front and back foot and eager to swing the arms, as well as a gun fielder. He was schooled at the esteemed Martizburg College and made his first-class debut at 18. Two years later, he was part of a South African A side that took on Bangladesh A and finished as the second highest run-scorer, which earned him a senior call-up. He travelled with South Africa to the West Indies in 2010. He did not do enough to travel to the 2011 World Cup or the 2012 World T20. It was only in 2013 that became a regular at international level, where he was most often deployed as a finisher.It took till 2015 for Miller's first ODI century: 130 against West Indies in January, followed swiftly by an unbeaten 138 two matches later which sent him to the World Cup in good form. Miller spent even longer waiting for a milestone in T20I cricket. His first fifty in the format came in March 2016. Both speak more to lack of opportunity in limited-overs cricket, rather than lack of ability. At the IPL, Miller was one of the mainstays of the Kings XI Punjab. So much so that, in 2016, he was appointed the franchise's captain despite his limited experience in the role in South Africa. He led Kwa-Zulu Natal in the Africa Cup T20.  Miller's international commitments have left little time for first-class cricket, where his average sits in the mid-30s but his ambitions to play Test cricket remain high.Firdose Moonda
Name : Aiden Markram, Full Name : Aiden Kyle Markram, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : October 04, 1994, Centurion, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : South Africa,Northerns,Northerns Under-19s,Punjab Kings,South Africa A,South Africa Under-19s,Titans,, Profile : The first South African captain to win a World Cup, albeit at age-group level, Aiden Markram announced himself as champion material early. He led South Africa's Under-19s to World Cup glory in 2014 and was also their leading run-scorer and third overall. Despite that success, Markram had to bide his time before earning a professional contract. He returned home to play for the University of Pretoria and Northerns, and in the 2016-17 season was part of the Titans squad. A batsman of class and composure, strong on the offside and aggressive in nature, Markram was seen as someone who could change a sometimes conservative South African approach to batting.Under Mark Boucher's guidance, Markram excelled and averaged over 50 in both the first-class and fifty-over competitions. He was named in South Africa's A side to tour the UK in June 2016, and as their captain in the longer formats. Though the team struggled, Markram scored a century against Hampshire and 71 against the Lions, which was enough to see him included in South Africa's Test squad to face England in July-August 2017.Firdose Moonda
Name : Sisanda Magala, Full Name : Sisanda Somila Bruce Magala, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : January 07, 1991, Port Elizabeth, Cape Province, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : South Africa,Eastern Province,Eastern Province Under-19s,South Africa A,, Profile : Celebrated as one of the best death bowlers in South Africa and with Dale Steyn as his biggest fan, Sisanda Magala has a good yorker, the ability to change his pace and keep his cool when matters are at their most tense. He is also known as an end-of-innings power-hitter with the kind of all-round qualities needed to succeed in the modern white-ball game. Magala was schooled at Muir College in the Eastern Cape and began his professional career at Eastern Province. He came to prominence as the leading wicket-taker in the Africa T20 Cup in 2016 and established himself at the Warriors franchise in the seasons that followed. Magala was picked by the Nelson Mandela Bay Giants for the 2018 Mzansi Super League and moved to the Cape Town Blitz for the 2019 edition, where he finished as the tournament's sixth-highest wicket-taker. He was included in South Africa's white-ball squads to play against England and Australia in 2020 but fitness concerns kept him out of the playing XI. That winter, Magala opted to move to the Lions franchise in Johannesburg, seeking sterner challenges and more helpful home conditions at the Wanderers. The change worked and although cricket was mostly played in location-based biobubbles away from the Bullring that summer, Maga;a was the leading wicket-taker in the domestic one-day and T20 cups in the 2020-21 summer and was included in South Africa's limited-overs squad to play Pakistan in April 2021.
Name : George Linde, Full Name : George Fredrik Linde, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : December 04, 1991, Cape Town, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : South Africa,Cape Cobras,Pretoria University,Western Province,Western Province Under-19s,, Profile : A left-arm spinner from the northern suburbs of Cape Town, George Linde's started off a seam-bowling schoolboy cricketer before changing his mind as a teenager. After he was selected in the Western Province under-13 team, he switched to spin and never looked back. Still, batting took precedence through his school years but an interested coach coaxed him to focus more on spin as his game developed. Linde spent a season playing club cricket in the UK after finishing school, before returning to South Africa, where he worked his way into the West Province amateur team and eventually into the Cobras franchise team. Competing against Dane Piedt meant Linde was often confined to the limited-overs teams, where he made his name. He was sixth in the 2017-18 domestic one-day cup wicket charts with 15 scalps and his star continued to rise as a white-ball bowler. He was contracted to the Cape Town Blitz for the Mzansi Super League in the 2018-19 season and took five wickets in as many matches. A bigger break came when he was selected as part of the South African A team that toured India in August-September 2019 and was the joint second-highest wicket-taker in the unofficial ODI series. Linde was called up as a replacement to South Africa's T20 squad to tour India in September 2019 when Jon-Jon Smuts was withdrawn from the squad for failing to meet fitness standards and was then added as a stand-in to the Test squad when Keshav Maharaj was ruled out of the last match of the series through injury. Firdose Moonda
Name : Heinrich Klaasen, Full Name : Heinrich Klaasen, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : July 30, 1991, Pretoria, Transvaal, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : South Africa,Northerns,Northerns Under-19s,Rajasthan Royals,Royal Challengers Bangalore,South Africa A,South Africa Emerging Players,Titans,Toronto Nationals,, Profile : A clean-hitting, wicketkeeper batsman, Heinrich Klaasen emerged on the scene at the same time that Quinton de Kock nailed down a place in the South African team, across all formats. As someone who had always combined the disciplines of batting and glovework, Klaasen hoped to make it in either skill and establish himself as all-round option, if required.Schooled at Menlopark HighSchool and the University of Pretoria, Klaasen made his first-class debut for Northerns in the 2012-13 season and averaged 42.58 in the provincial three-day cup. The following summer, he averaged 52.10 and in the one after that 65.25, before he finally broke through to franchise cricket in the 2016-17 season. Klaasen scored his first franchise hundred in February 2017, and almost made it a double: 195 to help Titans beat Dolphins in the penultimate round of the first-class competition. He finished the season as the seventh highest run-scorer and received a maiden call-up to the South African Test squad for their series in New Zealand in March 2017 as the reserve wicketkeeper.Firdose Moonda
Name : Beuran Hendricks, Full Name : Beuran Eric Hendricks, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : June 08, 1990, Louis Leipoldt Hospital, Bellville, Cape Town, Playing Role : Bowler, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Left arm fast medium, Teams : South Africa,Cape Cobras,Impi,Kings XI Punjab,Mumbai Indians,South Africa A,St Lucia Zouks,Western Province,Western Province Under-19s,, Profile : Beuran Hendricks hails from Belville Cricket Club in the Cape and was nurtured through the ranks in the province. He first represented them at the end of the 2010-11 season, when he was just 21. His ability to bowl at pace - in the 140s kph - and swing the ball was what caught the eye. Hendricks developed into a prospect for the future in the 2012-13 season when he was a regular member of the Cobras set-up. Bowling alongside the likes of Johann Louw and Charl Langeveldt, he learnt from experience and was the fifth highest-wicket-taker of the first-class season with 35 scalps at 17.74. He was selected as part of South Africa A's 2013 winter programme and prospered on flat pitches. Fiver-fors against Australia A and India A earned him the praise of High Performance director Vincent Barnes and set him up to lead the Cobras attack in the coming summer.Firdose Moonda
Name : Dean Elgar, Full Name : Dean Elgar, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : June 11, 1987, Welkom, Orange Free State, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : South Africa,Eagles,Free State,Gloucestershire 2nd XI,Nottinghamshire 2nd XI,Somerset,South Africa A,South Africa Under-19s,Surrey,Titans,, Profile : A left-hand top-order batsman, Dean Elgar was the South African Country Districts Player of the Year in 2005 after a series of  impressive performances for Free State and led South Africa in the 2006 Under-19 World Cup in Sri Lanka.  Elgar showed a lot of promise in his formative years, but it took him nearly six years to impress the South Africa selectors. A string of solid scores for Knights in 2011 left his first-class batting average touching 50 and earned him the chance to play the visiting Sri Lankans in a warm-up game. Elgar made an impact by scoring 78, and was picked for the one-day leg of that series. The following year he was part of the one-day squad in England, although it did not appear a natural format for him. However, he remained close to the selectors' thoughts and when JP Duminy was injured during the Brisbane Test against Australia, Elgar was summoned to join the tour and later made his debut in Perth.
ESPNcricinfo staff November 2012
Name : Faf du Plessis, Full Name : Francois du Plessis, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : July 13, 1984, Pretoria, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : South Africa,Chennai Super Kings,Edmonton Royals,Kent,Lancashire,Lancashire 2nd XI,Melbourne Renegades,Nicky Oppenheimer XI,North Eastern Transvaal,Northern Superchargers (Men),Nottinghamshire 2nd XI,Paarl Rocks,Peshawar Zalmi,Quetta Gladiators,Rising Pune Supergiants,South Africa A,South Africa Academy,South Africa Under-19s,South Africa XI,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,St Lucia Kings,Titans,World-XI,, Profile : Classy, composed and a fine crafter of innings', Faf du Plessis emerged as one of South Africa's most consistent batsmen in the post-Jacques Kallis era. Du Plessis is strong on the front foot, has impeccable defences and enjoys spending time at the crease. A natural leader, du Plessis was put in charge of the T20 side in February 2013 and formed part of the senior core in other formats. All that may have been lost when, in 2007, du Plessis signed a Kolpak deal with Lancashire. Unlike his high-school contemporary, AB de Villiers, du Plessis did not manage to fast-track himself into the international spotlight and looked abroad for other opportunities. Apart from learning the rigours of the county system, du Plessis made a name for his fielding.He returned to South Africa to play domestic cricket every summer and topped the MTN40 run charts in the 2010-11 season. His Kolpak deal had expired by then and he was selected in South Africa's one-day squad for the home series against India in January 2011. A half-century on debut sealed his spot for the World Cup that followed. At that point, du Plessis was known as an aggressive ball-striker and quick run-scorer.He was part of the South Africa Test squad that took the Test mace off England in mid-2012, but did not play a game, instead getting a T20 debut on that tour. He got his Test chance on South Africa's tour to Australia later that year and followed his first-innings 78 in the second Test in Adelaide with a stonewalling effort for the ages in the second innings. Du Plessis spent more than seven-and-a-half hours at the crease, faced 376 balls and remained unbeaten on 110 to take South Africa to an unlikely draw, which set them up for a series win in Perth.His curve continued upwards when in December that year, du Plessis was given the T20 captaincy in a series against New Zealand, despite only having played four T20Is prior to that. He was then given the role permanently the following February. Du Plessis had established himself as a complete batsmen, who had the ability to shift gears and anchor an innings, and played a similar knock against India in December 2013. His 134 in the second innings of the Johannesburg Test took South Africa within eight runs of completing the highest successful Test chase, 458, and in the end secured a draw. When Kallis retired after the next match, du Plessis was an automatic choice for promotion to No.3. It took du Plessis a little longer to repeat those feats in limited-overs. In his 51st ODI, he finally scored his first century in the format, against Australia in a triangular series in Harare in August 2014, but then the floodgates opened. Two more hundreds came in that series, which South Africa won. Du Plessis took good form into the 2015 World Cup, after becoming the second South African to score a T20I century after Richard Levi, in February that year. He was among those left devastated by South Africa's semi-final loss. While du Plessis continued to rack up runs in ODIs, he was criticised for occasionally scoring too slowly. He started to struggle in the longest format and after managing just one fifty in 12 innings in the 2015-16 season, he was dropped for the final Test against England in January 2016. Du Plessis led South Africa in two World T20 campaigns, in 2014 and 2016, and despite them returning empty-handed from both, he confirmed his desire to keep the captaincy.
Name : Quinton de Kock, Full Name : Quinton de Kock, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : December 17, 1992, Johannesburg, Gauteng, Playing Role : Wicketkeeper batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : South Africa,Cape Town Blitz,Cape Town Knight Riders,Delhi Daredevils,Easterns,Gauteng,Gauteng Under-19s,King Edward VII High School,Lions,Mumbai Indians,North of South Africa,Royal Challengers Bangalore,South Africa A,South Africa Under-19s,South African Composite XI,South African Invitation XI,Southern Brave (Men),Sunrisers Hyderabad,Titans,, Profile : Quinton de Kock's fearless striking and handy glovework have earned him comparisons to greats of the game like Adam Gilchrist and Mark Boucher, early in his career. By 21, de Kock shared the record for the most successive ODI centuries - three - before it was bettered by Kumar Sangakkara. A year later, he had established himself in all three formats. De Kock grew up as a baseball player and even considered a move to the United States, but his father convinced him to pursue cricket instead. He attended King Edward VII High School, the alma mater of Graeme Smith and Neil McKenzie, and was picked for the South African Under-19 side, which he captained briefly. The leadership mantle was taken away ahead of the 2012 World Cup in Australia in order for him to concentrate on his batting. It paid off as topped South Africa's batting charts with 284 runs from six matches at 47.33 and a best of 126.De Kock was contracted to the Lions in 2012-13 and caught the national selectors' eyes when he starred in a match-winning partnership with Neil McKenzie in the Champions League T20 against Mumbai Indians. He also finished fourth on the first-class rankings, despite playing only six of the 10 matches that summer. He was selected for South Africa's T20I series against New Zealand in 2012-13 to keep wickets in place of AB de Villiers, who asked to be rested. But he did not make much of a first impression on the international stage. After a lean series in Sri Lanka in July 2013, he was dropped. De Kock returned in November that year and scored his first ODI century against Pakistan. A month later, he reeled off three in a row against India. Early in 2014, de Kock made his Test debut after Alviro Petersen took ill, but was only given a permanent place later that year, on a tour to Sri Lanka. He scored two half-centuries in his next three Tests, but then tore ankle ligaments during warm-up in a Test against West Indies in December. The injury put de Kock at risk of missing the 2015 World Cup, but he recovered quickly. However, he struggled to find his old form and struggled through that tournament and a series against Bangladesh. Subsequently, he was dropped again and sent to the South African A side to find his touch. He did well for them in India and returned to the senior side, scoring two hundred in a five-match series against India and two more against England at home to reclaim his place. De Kock also hit his stride in the shortest format, and scored his maiden half-century in the 2016 World T20. Along with two contributions in the 40s, he was South Africa's most successful batsman and was named in the ICC's team of the tournament. Firdose Moonda
Name : Temba Bavuma, Full Name : Temba Bavuma, Country : South Africa, Date of Birth : May 17, 1990, Cape Town, Cape Province, Playing Role : Middle order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : South Africa,Gauteng,Gauteng Under-19s,Lions,South Africa A,South Africa Under-19s,, Profile : From the same street in Langa, a township outside Cape Town, where Thami Tsolekile and Malusi Siboto were raised, came Temba Bavuma. Unlike the wicketkeeper-batsman and medium-pacer, Bavuma is a specialist batsman and the first black African batsman picked in South Africa's Test squad. Without the advantage of height or power, Bavuma's game is built on finesse and patience and has been since he moved up country for secondary school at St David's Marist College in northern Johannesburg. Bavuma combined playing for his school with a commitment to Soweto Cricket Club, where he was mentored by Geoffrey Toyana from a young age.At 18, he made his first-class debut for Gauteng and three seasons later was playing in the franchise team, Lions. His sound technique, particularly off the back foot, helped him average over 45 in his second summer and he also demonstrated a temperament beyond his years. Bavuma established himself as part of the Lions leadership group, and was named their vice-captain in 2013-14. Bavuma played for South Africa A after finishing as the fifth-highest run-scorer in the 2012-13 season and followed that up by ending sixth in 2013-14. He was called up to the Test squad to play West Indies at the end of 2014.
Name : Evin Lewis, Full Name : Evin Lewis, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : December 27, 1991, Port of Spain, Trinidad, Playing Role : Opening batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : West Indies,Barisal Bulls,Comilla Victorians,Dhaka Dynamites,Karnataka Tuskers,Mumbai Indians,Punjabi Legends,Rajasthan Royals,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Trinidad & Tobago,Trinidad & Tobago Red Steel,Vancouver Knights,West Indies A,West Indies Cricket Board President's XI,West Indies Under-19s,, Profile : "I hit a lot of sixes, big sixes like him," Evin Lewis said when asked why he chose Chris Gayle as his mentor. For an upcoming left-handed opening batsman, especially in the modern game, that's a fairly smart pick.Lewis moved up the ranks playing age-group cricket for Trinidad & Tobago, and was part of a championship winning Under-19 side in 2008. His List A debut came in October 2009, when he struck a half-century playing for West Indies U-19s. The following January he was representing them at the World Cup.  Like Gayle, Lewis' best has come in the T20 circuit. In 2013, he was Trinidad & Tobago's top-scorer in the Champions League with a strike-rate of 141.61. He showed big-match credentials, striking 62 off 46 balls in the semi-final against a Mumbai Indians attack comprising Mitchell Johnson and Harbhajan Singh. The following year, at the Caribbean Premier League, he made 321 runs from eight innings, the most by a T&T Red Steel batsman and only 42 behind Gayle, who had played 11 innings. By this time, Lewis began to attract overseas interest. He hit 101 not out off 65 balls in his first stint at the Bangladesh Premier League, which paved the way for his first West Indies call-up, for a World T20 no less. Lendl Simmons had been injured for the early part of the 2016 tournament, which helped Lewis' "dream" come true. Ironically, his maiden T20, List A and first-class centuries came after the T&T board took away his domestic contract. 

ESPNcricinfo Staff
Name : Shimron Hetmyer, Full Name : Shimron Odilon Hetmyer, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : December 26, 1996, Cumberland, Berbice, Guyana, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style :  , Teams : West Indies,Delhi Capitals,Guyana,Guyana Amazon Warriors,Guyana Under-19s,Multan Sultans,Royal Challengers Bangalore,UWI Vice Chancellor's XI,West Indies A,West Indies Board President's XI,West Indies President's XI,West Indies Under-19s,, Profile : Shimron Hetmyer, a left-hand batsman, had played four games after his first-class debut for Guyana in April 2014 before he led West Indies to their first Under-19 World Cup title, in Bangladesh in 2015-16."We identified Hetmyer as captain because we liked the way he went about it in the field," West Indies Under-19 coach Graeme West had said before the World Cup. "He did things a little differently, he was very positive. In terms of passion and enthusiasm, you can't fault him."Hetmyer scored 158 runs in six games in that competition, including successive fifties in the quarter-final and semi-final. It was his second Under-19 World Cup - he had also featured in the 2014 edition of the tournament in the United Arab Emirates.Hetmyer was picked up by CPL franchise Guyana Amazon Warriors for the 2016 edition of the tournament.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Carlos Brathwaite, Full Name : Carlos Ricardo Brathwaite, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : July 18, 1988, Barbados, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm fast medium, Teams : West Indies,Antigua Hawksbills,Barbados,Barbados Tridents,Barbados Under-19s,Barisal Bulls,Combined Campuses and Colleges,Delhi Daredevils,Jamaica Tallawahs,Kolkata Knight Riders,Lahore Qalandars,Manchester Originals (Men),Multan Sultans,Peshawar Zalmi,Sagicor High Performance Centre,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sydney Sixers,Sydney Thunder,UWI Vice Chancellor's XI,West Indies A,West Indies Cricket Board President's XI,West Indies Select XI,WICB President's Celebrity XI,, Profile : Carlos Brathwaite wrote himself into West Indies history books by hitting four successive sixes to finish off England in the last over of the 2016 World T20 final. A hard-hitting allrounder, Brathwaite made his international debut in the limited-overs formats in 2011 but it was his contributions to West Indies' Test series in Australia in 2015-16 that helped gain him an IPL contract. He then proved the wisdom of Delhi Daredevils' decision to sign him above more high-profile names by taking 3 for 23 and clubbing 34 from 10 balls to give West Indies their second World T20 title.Brathwaite provided a glimpse of his talent when he announced himself with a haul of 7 for 90 on his first-class debut against Trinidad & Tobago, and backed it up with a consistent season that yielded 26 sticks in eight games. His performances won early recognition when he was picked for the Bangladesh tour later in 2011, making his his ODI and T20I debuts, but he had to wait more than three years for his next chance. He made a comeback to the limited-overs formats on the tour of South Africa in January 2015, before making his Test debut on the tour of Australia in December 2015.Despite West Indies' overall struggles, he impressed in his first two Tests. At the Boxing Day game in Melbourne, he helped Darren Bravo stem a first-innings collapse with a 59 on debut at No. 8. In the rain-affected Sydney Test, he struck a lively 71-ball 69. During the IPL 2016 player auction, he attracted a surprise bid of Rs 4.2 crore (US$620,000) from Delhi Daredevils, 14 times his base price of Rs 30 lakh. A couple of months later, with West Indies needing 19 from six balls, he completed victory over England in the most emphatic manner possible to confirm his dramatic rise.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Jason Holder, Full Name : Jason Omar Holder, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : November 05, 1991, Barbados, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium fast, Teams : West Indies,Barbados,Barbados Royals,BCA President's XI,Chennai Super Kings,Combined Campuses and Colleges,Comilla Victorians,Kolkata Knight Riders,Northamptonshire,Otago,Quetta Gladiators,Sagicor High Performance Centre,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sydney Sixers,West Indies A,West Indies Cricket Board President's XI,West Indies Under-19s,WICB President's Celebrity XI,, Profile : Jason Holder was seen as a future talent until a selection panel headed by former World Cup-winner Clive Lloyd appointed him West Indies' ODI captain in 2014. Holder was only 23 at the time, and was still making his way as a fast bowler and a lower-middle order batsman. Less than a year later, he took over the Test team too, indicating how much the WICB and men in the know - ranging from Viv Richards to Brian Lara to Tony Cozier - believed in this man, who comes across as remarkably level-headed and mature for someone so young. A reliable batsman and a steady medium-pacer - both suits being works in progress - Holder was born in Barbados and was the recipient of the prestigious Lord Gavron Award in 2009. He played one first-class game before being called up for the 2010 Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand, where he was his team's leading wicket-taker with 13 wickets. He replaced the injured Tino Best for West Indies' limited-overs leg of the Bangladesh tour in 2011, and made his international debut in Australia a few months later. A Test debut came against New Zealand in Bridgetown in June 2014, and he took two wickets and made a fighting 52 at No. 7. He had been signed by Chennai Super Kings in the 2013 IPL auction, but was dropped. However, in 2016, he was picked up by Kolkata Knight Riders.At 6 feet and seven inches tall, Holder is a soft-spoken man, and so there were questions over his ability to lead a team of older and vastly more experienced cricketers. His maiden Test century - against England in April 2015 - showcased his mental strength. West Indies were 189 for 6 when he came in to bat at No. 8 and his 214-minute defiance saved the match for his team. On a tour of Australia in 2015-16, his authority seemed to come into question when stories of his bowlers refusing to bowl into the wind surfaced, but Holder quashed them on Twitter saying, "Be careful what you read! My fast bowlers had a tough game but every time I called on them they came up and gave effort. Never once refused!"He captained West Indies in the 2015 World Cup, where they won three out of seven matches. He was also part of the squad that won the 2016 World T20, though he didn't play a game.  ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Chris Gayle, Full Name : Christopher Henry Gayle, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : September 21, 1979, Kingston, Jamaica, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm offbreak, Teams : West Indies,Balkh Legends,Barisal Burners,Chattogram Challengers,D Ganga's XI,Dhaka Gladiators,Dolphins,Hooper XI,ICC World XI,Jacobs XI,Jacques Kallis Invitational XI,Jamaica,Jamaica Tallawahs,Jozi Stars,Kandy Tuskers,Karachi Kings,Kings XI Punjab,Kolkata Knight Riders,Lahore Qalandars,Lions,Marylebone Cricket Club,Matabeleland Tuskers,Melbourne Renegades,Quetta Gladiators,Rangpur Riders,Royal Challengers Bangalore,RR Sarwan's XI,Somerset,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Stanford Superstars,Sydney Thunder,Vancouver Knights,West Indies Under-19s,Western Australia,Worcestershire,, Profile : A thrusting Jamaican left-hander, Gayle earned himself a black mark on his first senior tour - to England in 2000 - where the new boys were felt to be insufficiently respectful of their elders. But a lack of respect, for opposition bowlers at least, has served Gayle well since then. Tall and imposing at the crease, he loves to carve through the covers off either foot, and has the ability to decimate the figures of even the thriftiest of opening bowlers. And in this era of Twenty20 cricket, Gayle is the batsman who has thrived like no other.Among his many strengths, perhaps the biggest one is his outstanding hand-eye coordination, which allows Gayle to regularly hit even good-length deliveries for boundaries. Technique and footwork aren't his greatest assets, but most often he compensates with other skills. No batsman has taken to the 20-over format like he has. He showed early signs of his liking for that format by smashing the first century in Twenty20 internationals - a 57-ball 117 against South Africa in the World Twenty20 in 2007 - and when Twenty20 leagues mushroomed the world over and sought international stars, Gayle was the biggest beneficiary. Over two seasons - 2011 and 2012 - of the IPL, he became easily the most feared batsman of the league, smashing more hundreds and sixes than any other batsman, by far. When he carted Pune Warriors all over the ground to score an unbeaten 175 in IPL 2013, it felt right that he should finally own the record for highest individual score, fastest century, and most sixes in a Twenty20 innings, because no batsman has dominated Twenty20 cricket like he has. Gayle's free-stroking, aggressive style is obviously best suited for limited-overs cricket, but that doesn't mean he hasn't cut it as a Test batsman. When he has turned up for West Indies, his pugnacious approach has become an attacking weapon in its own right, in what's been a lean era for West Indian cricket. His 79-ball century at Cape Town in January 2004, on the back of a South African first innings of 532, was typical of his no-holds-barred approach. However, Gayle has also shown the ability to bat long periods and the hunger to make big scores. In 2009 against Australia, Gayle batted almost seven-and-a-half hours in scoring an unbeaten 165 to save the Test in Adelaide; in the very next game, though, he smashed the fifth-fastest Test century - off 70 balls - to indicate that quick-scoring remained his preferred method. Next year he batted almost ten hours and scored 333 against Sri Lanka and Muralitharan in Galle, becoming only the fourth batsman to score two triples in Tests, thus proving again his ability to bat long periods.And then there is also his brisk non-turning offspin, with which he has turned himself into a genuine allrounder in limited-overs cricket. His tendency to stay aloof on the field sometimes suggests he isn't interested in the proceedings, but his relaxed approached was good for the team whenever he led West Indies. However, West Indies have missed his services far too often due his differences with their board. During his exile, he was a Twenty20 regular in various leagues around the world, entertaining crowds in Australia, Zimbabwe and Bangladesh. After a long spell out from international cricket he returned strongly in 2012 on the tour of England and subsequently at home against New Zealand.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Daren Sammy, Full Name : Daren Julius Garvey Sammy, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : December 20, 1983, Micoud, St Lucia, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : West Indies,Brampton Wolves,Glamorgan,Hobart Hurricanes,Kings XI Punjab,Northern Windward Islands,Nottinghamshire,Peshawar Zalmi,Rajshahi Kings,Royal Challengers Bangalore,St Lucia,St Lucia Zouks,Stanford Superstars,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Toronto Nationals,University of West Indies Vice Chancellor's XI,Windward Islands,World-XI,, Profile : Daren Julius Garvey Sammy has names invoking images of great leadership, and in October 2010 he became the first cricketer from St Lucia to be named West Indies captain. Rather fittingly, in what was a highlight of his career, he went on to lead West Indies to their first world title since the 1979 World Cup with a stirring victory over hosts Sri Lanka in the 2012 World Twenty20 final. Sammy is in fact the first international cricketer to emerge from St Lucia, an island rediscovering its cricket culture as the new Beausejour Stadium has captured imaginations. He won a one-day cap in England in 2004 - although there wasn't actually any play in the match, it counted as the toss was made - and was called up late to the Champions Trophy squad in September 2004 after Jermaine Lawson pulled out with a stress-fractured back. In July 2006, he was named as St Lucia's captain for West Indies' first-ever Twenty20 tournament and was recalled for the tour of England in 2007. After missing the first two Tests, Sammy was drafted into the side for his debut at Old Trafford, and celebrated with 7 for 66 in the second innings - a performance that included three wickets in a single over. St Lucian fans had their first opportunity to see Sammy in an ODI in his home country when he played at Gros Islet against Sri Lanka in 2008. In the next two years, Sammy struggled to hold down a place in the Test side while remaining a fairly permanent fixture in the one-day team. Playing for a weakened team against Bangladesh in 2009, he ended the two-Test series with 12 wickets. Further success with the ball came on Zimbabwe's tour of the Caribbean in 2010, as he became the first West Indian to take five wickets in a Twenty20 international. West Indies went on to lose that game, but Sammy's bowling in the one-day series which followed - he took eight wickets at 12.50 and an economy rate of just 2.85 - was a major factor in the home side's win. He was also one of the bright spots in West Indies' whitewashing by the South Africans later that year, although this time it was his batting that grabbed the attention: he scored his runs at a strike-rate of 145.31, and registered the fastest ever half-century by a West Indian in the second ODI at North Sound, very nearly snatching an unlikely win. After Chris Gayle did not sign a central contract in 2010, Sammy was named captain of the Test and one-day teams. He did lead West Indies to their first Test win in two years, taking seven wickets against Pakistan in Providence in 2011, but overall the results were disappointing. Though West Indies won six in a row - against New Zealand (at home), Bangladesh and Zimbabwe - they then lost heavily against India and New Zealand (away). With Sammy's performances with bat and ball being less than impressive, he was replaced as Test captain by Denesh Ramdin in May 2014.Vaneisa Baksh & ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Shamarh Brooks, Full Name : Shamarh Shaqad Joshua Brooks, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : October 01, 1988, St. Michael, Barbados, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : West Indies,Barbados,Barbados Cricket Association President's XI,Barbados Tridents,Jamaica Tallawahs,Middlesex 2nd XI,Sagicor High Performance Centre,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,UWI Vice Chancellor's XI,West Indies A,West Indies Cricket Board President's XI,West Indies President's XI,West Indies Under-19s,, Profile : In full flow, Shamarh Brooks is all elegance. He drives mercilessly through the off side and often finishes his flicks standing on one leg. But it took four innings in Tests before these skills were visible.Delayed gratification has been a theme of Brooks' career. As a teenager, he was part of two Under-19 World Cup squads, even captaining West Indies in the 2008 edition. But he found it hard to take to first-class cricket. Brooks wanted to be an electrical engineer if not a cricketer, a switch that might have played on his mind when he was dropped by Barbados in 2012, having made only one fifty after his debut in 2007.His comeback for Barbados was as boisterous as his exit had been tame. In 2015, Brooks made 124 against Windward Islands in his first innings back, followed it up with two more hundreds in the same year, and was immediately back in the West Indies' plans with a Board President's XI call-up against Australia.But it wasn't until 2018 when he seriously challenged for the senior side again. As West Indies A captain, he made 91 and 122* against India A during a tour of England, and two fifties against the same opponents a year later earned him a place in West Indies' squad for the home series against India.Varun Shetty
Name : Darren Bravo, Full Name : Darren Michael Bravo, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : February 06, 1989, Trinidad, Playing Role : Top order batter, Batting Style : Left hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : West Indies,Bengal Tigers,Comilla Victorians,Deccan Chargers,Kolkata Knight Riders,Multan Sultans,Nottinghamshire,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Trinbago Knight Riders,Trinidad & Tobago,Trinidad & Tobago Under-19s,Trinidad & Tobago XI,UWI Vice Chancellor's Celebrity XI,West Indies A,West Indies Board President's XI,West Indies Select XI,West Indies Under-19s,West Indies XI,Winnipeg Hawks,, Profile : Darren Bravo is living proof that imitation is the best form of flattery and learning. Only he chose to do it with one of the most inimitable masters of the game. To try to imitate is one thing, to pull it off at Test level, to imbibe it so much that it becomes you, is quite another. Brian Lara's cousin and Dwayne Bravo's half-brother, the younger Bravo, used to watch cricket only for Lara. As soon as Lara would get out, Bravo would switch off the TV and go out to bat.The result was not quite The Prince, but a talented left-hand batsman with the same walk, the same backlift, the same flourish, the same footwork, the same mannerisms. The most incredible part, though, is that none of it seems forced, gratuitous or less than the best that Bravo can do. The man was born to bat this way, right down to the same Lara leap upon reaching a century.It was that century that eluded Bravo for his first 31 ODIs, nine Tests and four T20Is. The appetite, though, was there. For a stylish and attacking batsman, he is one of the few young stars in world cricket who feel more at home as the length of the format increases. His early century drought might suggest otherwise, but he is a man for long innings, a man who seems to love to bat on and on. His first century arrived in Bangladesh, in his tenth Test, and he made it a big one, falling five short of a double. He scored two more in the series in India immediately after. After 12 Tests his run aggregate and average were identical to that of Lara's after 12. He scored his first ODI century against Zimbabwe in 2013.Of course Bravo doesn't have to face the quality of bowling Lara did, and he bats a position lower that Lara's No. 3. Like Lara he will soon become the best batsman of a struggling batting line-up. What he does with a team even weaker than the one Lara played in will be Bravo's real test. Sidharth Monga
Name : Fabian Allen, Full Name : Fabian Anthony Allen, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : May 07, 1995, Kingston, Jamaica, Playing Role : Bowling allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Slow left arm orthodox, Teams : West Indies,Jamaica,Jamaica Select XI,Jamaica Tallawahs,Jamaica Under-19s,Jamaica XI,Kerala Kings,Multan Sultans,Peshawar Zalmi,Punjab Kings,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sylhet Sixers,West Indies B,West Indies Under-19s,, Profile : 
Name : Nkrumah Bonner, Full Name : Nkrumah Eljego Bonner, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : January 23, 1989, St. Catherine, Jamaica, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Legbreak, Teams : West Indies,Jamaica,Jamaica Tallawahs,Jamaica Under-19s,Sagicor High Performance Centre,West Indies A,West Indies Under-19s,, Profile : A middle-order batsman who also bowls handy legspin, Nkrumah Bonner made his T20I debut for West Indies in 2011 but struggled to nail down a place at international level, playing only once more before a long absence from the national set-up.After a number of middling returns for Jamaica in regional cricket, he earned a spot as a reserve on West Indies' tour to England in 2020 following a 523-run haul in the 2019-20 Four-Day Competition, and was also among the standby players during their Test series in New Zealand. A spate of withdrawals from senior players gave him an opportunity in both the Test and ODI squads for the tour of Bangladesh in early 2021.ESPNcricinfo staff
Name : Dwayne Bravo, Full Name : Dwayne John Bravo, Country : West Indies, Date of Birth : October 07, 1983, Santa Cruz, Trinidad, Playing Role : Allrounder, Batting Style : Right hand bat, Bowling Style : Right arm medium, Teams : West Indies,Carib Beer XI,Chennai Super Kings,Chittagong Kings,Comilla Victorians,Dhaka Dynamites,DJ Bravo's XI,Dolphins,Essex,Gujarat Lions,ICC World XI,Kent,Lahore Qalandars,Maratha Arabians,Melbourne Renegades,Melbourne Stars,Middlesex,Mumbai Indians,Paarl Rocks,Peshawar Zalmi,Quetta Gladiators,RR Sarwan's XI,SC Joseph's XI,Shell Cricket Academy Invitation XI,St Kitts and Nevis Patriots,Surrey,Sydney Sixers,Trinbago Knight Riders,Trinidad & Tobago,Trinidad & Tobago XI,University of West Indies Vice Chancellor's XI,UWI Vice Chancellor's Celebrity XI,Victoria,West Indies A,West Indies Board President's XI,West Indies Board XI,Winnipeg Hawks,, Profile : Dwayne Bravo is that creature long needed by West Indies, an allrounder with plenty of flair and skill both as a batsman and seam bowler. Unfortunately for West Indies, they haven't been able to utilise his services as often as they probably would have liked to: till the end of 2013, more than nine years since his Test debut, he had played only 40 out of West Indies' 81 Tests in the same period. Prioritising IPL over international cricket has led to differences with the board, while injuries have also limited his Test appearances, but as a limited-overs player Bravo remains a key member for West Indies and took over from Darren Sammy as ODI captain in 2013. He held the post till December 2014, when the selectors replaced him with Jason Holder and left him out of the ODI side, two months after he had played a central role in the team pulling out mid-way from a tour to India due to issues with the payment structure in their revised contracts. As a player, Bravo's skills and self-confidence at the big stage were never in doubt right from the early days in his international career. He made his Test debut at Lord's in July 2004, and took three wickets in the first innings with his medium-paced swingers. He also showed a cool enough temperament to forge a confident start at the crease with the bat. By the end of the series, it was clear that Bravo was a special talent. He scored plenty of runs and claimed a bunch of wickets in four Tests, but nowhere was his ability more evident than in Manchester, where he top-scored for the team, and then restricted England with a six-wicket haul. He hit 107 against South Africa in April 2004-05 at Antigua to bring up his maiden century and in November 2005, scored a magnificent 113 against Australia at Hobart. He dazzled in the ODI series against India in May 2006, bamboozling the batsmen with his slower ones and chipping in with match-winning contributions with the bat. He grew as a player in the limited-overs format in the 2006-07 season with a fluent unbeaten 112, his maiden ODI ton, against England in the Champions Trophy and achieved his best career figures, 4 for 39, against India in the last game before the World Cup. He was often a rare glimmer of joy among some depressing moments until an ankle injury struck in 2008 and ruled him out for eight months. Around that time, his value as a Twenty20 player came into focus, and with several such leagues coming - most prominently the IPL - Bravo chose those commitments over the West Indians ones. In 2010, he, along with Kieron Pollard, turned down a WICB central contract which would require him to be available to play for West Indies at all times. Next year, he chose the IPL over a two-Test home series against Pakistan. Between 2011 and 2013, West Indies played 24 Tests but Bravo didn't play any of them. He retired from Test cricket in January 2015.On the other hand, he became a fixture in the Chennai Super Kings line-up in the IPLs: in the 2013 season, he led the wickets tally with 32. He came back to play for West Indies in the limited-overs games, but the feeling persisted that West Indies were severely under-utilising his talents.
Vaneisa Baksh and ESPNcricinfo staff
